Module 9

Lab: Configuring Lync Online
----------------------------

Scenario

A key business goal for Lucerne Publishing is to improve collaboration between its full-time employees and its associate pool. Lync Online is a key factor in the provisioning of these facilities. As the company completes the Deploy phase of the FastTrack process, Remi, Justin, and Heidi are deciding which facilities the company requires, and they have brought in Odessa Brunner as the company’s Lync expert. After much consultation, they decide that at this point in the project Lync federation will only be allowed with the litware.com domain.

Objectives

To provide students with the experience of configuring Lync Online.

Lab Setup

Estimated Time: 60 minutes

Virtual machine: 20346C-LUC-CL1

Username: **Student1**

Password: **Pa$$w0rd**

In all tasks, where you see references to lucernepublishingXXXX.onmicrosoft.com, replace the XXXX with the unique Lucerne Publishing number that you were assigned when you set up your Office 365 account in Module 1, Lab 1B, Exercise 2, Task 3, Step 5

Where you see references to labXXXXX.o365ready.com, replace the XXXXX with the unique o365ready.com number you were assigned when you registered your IP address at www.o365ready.com in Module 2, Lab 2B, Exercise 1, Task 2, Step 6.

### Exercise 1: Configure Lync End-User Communication Settings

Scenario

Lucerne Publishing wants to investigate the effects of applying policies that restrict users from accessing various features in Lync Online. Odessa Brunner is working with Luc Cartier, Rick Torres, and Mario Ledford to demonstrate the effect of enabling and disabling Lync features.

The main tasks for this exercise are as follows:

1. Attempt to IM Someone Who Is Out

2. Verify Lync Communications

3. Configure User Settings

####   Task 1: Attempt to IM Someone Who Is Out

In Internet Explorer, on the **Office 365 sign in** page, login as **mledford@labXXXXX.o365ready.com**, (where XXXXX is your unique o365ready.com number). Use MLedford’s temporary password from Lab 2.

When prompted, change his password to **Pa$$w0rd** and click **Save**.

When prompted again, re-enter the new password and click **Sign in**.

In the **Office 365 Admin** console, click **Outlook**.

In **Outlook Web App**, specify your language and time zone, and click **Save**.

In the menu bar at the top of the page, note the grey box to the left of **Mario Ledford**, then click it.

**Note**: If the box shows green, continue with the steps.

Verify that, under his name, there is a message stating: **“There’s a problem with IM. Please try again later.”**

Click **Sign in to IM**.

Verify that nothing happens.

In the top-right corner, click **Mario Ledford**, and then click **Sign out**.

In Internet Explorer, click **Use another account**.

Sign in as **rschmid@labXXXXX.o365ready.com**, (where XXXXX is your unique o365ready.com number) with a password of **Pa$$w0rd**.

In the **Office 365 Admin** console, click **Outlook**.

In **Outlook Web App**, specify your language and time zone, and click **Save**.

In the menu bar at the top of the page, note the green box to the left of **Robert Schmid**, then click it.

Verify that there is presence information showing.

In the menu bar, click **People**.

In the **Search people** text box, type **justin** and press ENTER.

In the right-hand pane, under **Justin Muller**, note that he is offline, then click the **Send an instant message** button.

In the Internet Explorer pop-up blocker window, click **Options for this site**, and then click **Always allow**.

In the chat box that opens, in the bottom window, type, **Hi Justin, can you IM me when you return please**, and press ENTER.

Note the message stating **Your instant message couldn’t be delivered**.

Close the chat window.

####   Task 2: Verify Lync Communications

1.  In the taskbar, right-click the **Internet Explorer** icon and click **Start InPrivate Browsing**.

In the new Internet Explorer window, browse to **https://login.microsoftonline.com**.

Sign in as **jmuller@labXXXXX.o365ready.com**, (where XXXXX is your unique o365ready.com number) with a password of **Pa$$w0rd**.

In the **Office 365 Admin** console, click **Outlook**.

In **Outlook Web App**, in the menu bar at the top of the page, note the green box to the left of **Justin Muller**, then click it.

Verify that there is presence information showing.

Switch back to the other Internet Explorer window where **Robert Schmid** is logged in.

In **Outlook Web App**, refresh the page.

In the **Search People** text box, type **justin** and press ENTER.

In the right-hand pane, under **Justin Muller**, click the **Send an instant message** button.

In the chat box that opens, in the bottom window, type, **Hi Justin, can you IM me when you return please**, and press ENTER.

Switch back to the other Internet Explorer **InPrivate Browsing** window where **Justin Muller** is logged in.

In the **IM REQUEST** window, click **Accept**.

Verify that the chat box opens displaying the instant message from Robert Schmid.

In the bottom window of the chat box, type **I am back now if you want to come and see me**, and press ENTER.

Switch back to the open chat window for **Robert Schmid**, and verify that the response has come back from Justin Muller.

Close any open chat windows.

In the top-right corner, click **Robert Schmid**, and then click **Sign out**.

Switch back to the other Internet Explorer b window.

Close any open chat windows.

In the top-right corner, click **Justin Muller**, and then click **Sign out**.

Close Internet Explorer.

####   Task 3: Configure User Settings

1.  On your host computer, ensure you are logged into the **20346C-LUC-CL1** virtual machine as **Student1** with a password of **Pa$$word**.

On **LUC-CL1**, click the Task Bar and click **Internet Explorer**.

Browse to **https://login.microsoftonline.com**.

Sign in as **obrunner@labXXXXX.o365ready.com**, (where XXXXX is your unique o365ready.com number) with a password of **Pa$$w0rd**.

If the **Don’t lose access to your account** page appears, then enter the following information:

In **Country or Region**, select **Switzerland.**

In **Mobile phone number**, enter **5553000**.

In **Alternate user name**, enter **user@alt.none**.

Click **Save and continue**.

In the **Office 365 admin center**, click **Admin**, then click **Office 365**.

On the left-hand side, click **Users**, and then click **Active users**.

Select the check box for **Mario Ledford**.

Click the (Edit) button.

In the left-hand menu, click **Licenses**.

Clear the **Lync Online (Plan 2)** check box.

Click **Save**.

In the **Office 365 admin center**, click **Admin**, then click **Lync**.

On the left-hand side, click **Users**.

Select the check box for **Luc Cartier**.

Click the (Edit) button.

In the **General** section, under **Audio and video**, click the drop-down list and then click **Audio only**.

In the left-hand menu click **External communications**.

Clear the **People on public IM networks** check box.

Click **Save**.

Select the check box for **Robert Schmid**.

Click the (Edit) button.

In the **General** section, under **Audio and video**, click the drop-down list and then click **None**.

Click **Save**.

On the left-hand side, click **Users**.

Select the check box for **Rick Torres**.

Click the (Edit) button.

In the left-hand menu click **Dial-in conferencing**.

In the **Provider name** drop-down list, click **Intercall**.

In the **Toll number** box, type **555-1234**.

In the **Passcode** box, type **123456**.

Click **Save**.

Click **Dial-in conferencing**.

Click **Dial-in users**.

Note that Rick Torres’s number and passcode shows up on the list.

In the left-hand side, click **Users**.

Verify that **Mario Ledford** is not listed as a Lync user.

In the top-right corner, click **Odessa Brunner**, and then click **Sign out**.

If necessary, close Internet Explorer to complete the logout process.

**Results**: Lucerne Publishing now has a Lync Online deployment correctly configured to meet the organization's business needs.

### Exercise 2: Configure Lync Organizational Settings

Scenario

Odessa Brunner is anxious to try out PowerShell as a mechanism for controlling settings in Lync Online. He downloads and installs the PowerShell Module for Lync Online and then configures several settings. Odessa finishes off by changing the federation setting so that Lucerne Publishing only allows federated Lync conversations with Litware.com. He then reviews this setting in the Lync admin center.

The main tasks for this exercise are as follows:

1. Download and install Windows PowerShell Module for Lync Online

2. Configure Lync Online Organizational Settings with Windows PowerShell

####   Task 1: Download and install Windows PowerShell Module for Lync Online

1.  Open Internet Explorer and browse to **https://login.microsoftonline.com**.

Sign in as **obrunner@labXXXXX.o365ready.com**, (where XXXXX is your unique o365ready.com number) with a password of **Pa$$w0rd**.

In **Outlook Web App**, specify your language and time zone, and click **Save**.

Press CTRL+T to open a new Internet Explorer tab and browse to **http://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?LinkId=294688**.

On the **Windows PowerShell Module for Lync Online** page, click **Download**.

Click **Run**.

Select the **I agree to the license terms and conditions** check box.

Click **Install**.

If a **User Account Control** dialog box appears, click **Yes**.

When the install completes, click **Close**.

Close the Download Center Internet Explorer tab.

####   Task 2: Configure Lync Online Organizational Settings with Windows PowerShell

1.  On the desktop, right-click **Windows Azure Active Directory Module for Windows PowerShell**, and then click **Run as administrator**.

In the **User Account Control** dialog box, click **Yes**.

At the prompt, type the following command and press Enter:

Import-Module LyncOnlineConnector

At the **Start WinRM Service** message, press Enter.

At the prompt, type the following command and press Enter:

$Credential = Get-Credential

In the **Enter your credentials** dialog box, in the **User name** box, type **obrunner@labXXXXX.o365ready.com** (where XXXXX is your unique o365ready.com number), and in the **Password** box, type **Pa$$w0rd**.

Click **OK**.

At the prompt, type the following command and press Enter:

$session = New-CsOnlineSession -Credential $credential

At the prompt, type the following command and press Enter:

Import-PSSession $session

At the prompt, type the following command and press Enter:

Set-CSPrivacyConfiguration -EnablePrivacyMode $True

Note the warning you receive about enabling client version checking.

At the prompt, type the following command and press Enter:

Set-CSPushNotificationConfiguration -EnableApplePushNotification $False

At the prompt, type the following command and press Enter:

Get-CSPrivacyConfiguration

You should see the following output:

> Identity: Global
>
> EnablePrivacyMode: True
>
> AutoInitiateContacts: True
>
> PublishLocationDataDefault: True
>
> DisplayPublishedPhotoDefault: True

At the prompt, type the following command and press Enter:

Get-CSPushNotificationConfiguration

At the prompt, type the following command and press Enter:

Set-CsTenantFederationConfiguration –AllowPublicUsers $True

At the prompt, type the following command and press Enter:

Set-CsTenantFederationConfiguration –AllowFederatedUsers $True

At the prompt, type the following command and press Enter:

$x = New-CsEdgeDomainPattern -Domain "litware.com"

At the prompt, type the following command and press Enter:

$newAllowList = New-CsEdgeAllowList -AllowedDomain $x

At the prompt, type the following command and press Enter:

Set-CsTenantFederationConfiguration -AllowedDomains $newAllowList

At the prompt, type the following command and press Enter:

Get-CsTenantFederationConfiguration

At the prompt, type the following command and press Enter:

Remove-PSSession $session

At the prompt, type the following command and press Enter:

Exit

In the **Office 365 Admin** console, click **Admin**, then click **Lync**.

On the left-hand side, click **Organization**.

In the **General** section, under **Presence privacy mode**, verify that the setting is configured as **Display presence information only to a user’s contacts**.

Under **Mobile phone notifications**, verify that push notifications are turned off.

Click **External communications**.

Under **External access**, verify that **On only for allowed domains** is set.

Verify that under **Blocked or allowed domains**, litware.com is listed.

**Results**: Lucerne Publishing now has a Lync Online deployment correctly configured to meet the organization's business needs.
