Module 5

Lab: Preparing for Exchange Migration
-------------------------------------

Scenario

After a successful Fast Track pilot, Lucerne Publishing has given approval to move on to the Deploy phase and is in the process of adopting Office 365. The team is the same, with Alain Richer providing partner support, Justin as the Project Manager, and Heidi as the main implementer.

The company now needs to ensure that:

its DNS domains are registered with Office 365

the DNS records are correctly configured

all parent and subdomains are added

the service records for different Office 365 services are configured

Objectives

The objectives of this lab are to:

Add and configure domains and subdomains in Office 365.

Configure certificates for use with Exchange Server and Active Directory Federation Services.

Check that Outlook Anywhere is working for Office 365 to connect to on-premises Exchange Server.

Lab Setup

Estimated Time: 90 minutes

Virtual machine: 20346C-LUC-CL1

Username: **Student1**

Password: **Pa$$w0rd**

Where you see references in the steps to lucernepublishingXXXX.onmicrosoft.com, you should replace XXXX with the unique Lucerne Publishing number that you were assigned when you set up your Office 365 accounts in Module 1, Lab 1B, Exercise 2, Task 3, Step 5.

Where you see references to labXXXXX.o365ready.com, you should replace XXXXX with the unique o365ready.com number you were assigned when you registered your IP address at www.o365ready.com in Module 2, Lab 2B, Exercise 1, Task 2, Step 6.

### Exercise 1: Configure Exchange Server for Cutover Migration

Scenario

Alain’s planning sessions with Justin and Heidi have established that the most appropriate approach for Lucerne Publishing is to carry out a cutover migration from their on-premises Exchange Server to Exchange Online. This decision is based on the fact that Lucerne Publishing has Exchange Server 2013 and fewer than 2,000 users.

To prepare for this migration, Heidi verifies that all the DNS settings and security certificates are in place for the on-premises Exchange Server. By the end of this process, on-premises Exchange is properly configured for connections from Office 365.

The main tasks for this exercise are as follows:

1. Create the External DNS Zone in the DNS Console

2. Test that DNS Delegation is Working

3. Configure DNS Records for the On-Premises Exchange Server

4. Create a Certificate Signing Request for a Third-Party SSL Certificate

5. Request and Download a Certificate from a Public Certificate Authority

6. Install the Third-Party SSL Certificate

7. Configure Exchange Server To Use the Lab Certificate for Mail Services

8. Verify the Lab Certificate is Correctly Installed

9. Verify that Outlook Anywhere Works with On-Premises Exchange

####   Task 1: Create the External DNS Zone in the DNS Console

1.  On the **LUC-CL1** desktop, click **File Explorer** and navigate to **E:\\Rdp\_files**.

Double-click on **LUC-DC1.rdp** and log on as **LUCERNE\\LucAdmin** with a password of **Pa$$w0rd**.

In **LUC-DC1**, press the Windows Key, and on the Start screen, click **Server Manager**.

In **Server Manager**, click the **Tools** menu and then click **DNS**.

In **DNS Manager**, expand **LUC-DC1**.

Click **Forward Lookup Zones**, then right-click and click **New Zone**.

In the **New Zone Wizard**, click **Next**.

In **Zone Type**, ensure the zone type is **Primary zone** and that **Store the zone in Active Directory** is not selected and click **Next**.

In the **Zone Name** page, enter your student DNS domain name in the form of **labXXXXX.o365ready.com** (where XXXXX is your unique o365ready.com number) and click **Next**.

Select to **Create a new file** with a name of ***labXXXXX.o365ready.com.dns*** and click **Next**.

In the **Dynamic Update** page, ensure that **Do not allow dynamic updates** is selected, then click **Next**.

On the **Completing the New Zone Wizard** page, click **Finish**.

In **DNS Manager**, on the **View** menu, click **Advanced** to display the TTL value on records.

####   Task 2: Test that DNS Delegation is Working

1.  In **DNS Manager**, right-click **labXXXXX.o365ready.com** (where XXXXX is your unique o365ready.com number) and click **New Alias (CNAME)**.

In the **Alias** **name** field, enter **www** as the alias name.

In the **Fully qualified domain name (FQDN) for target host** field, enter **www.microsoft.com**.

Click **OK** to close the **New Resource Record** dialog box.

Press the Windows key and on the **Start** screen, click **Windows PowerShell**.

In the Windows PowerShell window, type **NSLOOKUP** and press Enter.

At the NSLOOKUP arrow prompt, type **www.labXXXXX.o365ready.com (where XXXXX is your unique o365ready.com number) and press ENTER**.

You should see a response such as:

**Name**: lb1.www.ms.akadns.net

**Address:** 134.170.188.84 (this will vary based on location)

Press the Windows key and on the **Start** screen, click **Internet Explorer**.

If the **Set up Internet Explorer** dialog box appears, click **Use recommended security and compatibility settings** and click **OK**.

In the **Address** field, enter **www.labXXXXX.o365ready.com** (where XXXXX is your unique o365ready.com number).

If the **Internet Explorer security warning** appears, click **Close**.

Confirm that the web request redirects to the Microsoft website.

Close Internet Explorer.

Switch back to **DNS Manager**.

In the **labXXXXX.o365ready.com** zone (where XXXXX is your unique o365ready.com number), right-click the **www** - **Alias (CNAME)** record and click **Delete**.

In the **DNS** confirmation box, click **Yes**.

####   Task 3: Configure DNS Records for the On-Premises Exchange Server

1.  On **LUC-DC1**, in **DNS Manager**, right-click on the **labXXXXX.o365ready.com zone** (where XXXXX is your unique o365ready.com number) and select **New Host**.

In the **New Host** dialog box, in the **Name** field, enter **mail**.

In the **IP address** field, enter the external IP address for the Lucerne Publishing datacenter that you recorded in Module 2, Lab B, Exercise 1, Task 2, Step 2.

Click **Add Host**, and then in the **DNS message** box, click **OK**.

Click **Done**.

Switch to Windows PowerShell.

Enter the following command and press Enter:

**PING mail.labXXXXX.o365ready.com** (where XXXXX is your unique o365ready.com number).

Confirm that **mail.labXXXXX.o365ready.com** (where XXXXX is your unique o365ready.com number) resolves to the external IP address of the Lucerne Datacenter.

In **DNS Manager**, right-click the **labXXXXX.o365ready.com** zone (where XXXXX is your unique o365ready.com number) and click **New Mail Exchanger**.

In the **Mail Exchanger (MX)** tab, leave the **Host** **or child domain** field blank.

In the **Fully qualified domain name (FQDN) of mail server**, enter **mail.labXXXXX.o365ready.com** (where XXXXX is your unique o365ready.com number)**.**

Leave the **Mail server priority** as **10**.

Click **OK** to create the mail server record.

In DNS Manager, right-click the **labXXXXX.o365ready.com zone** (where XXXXX is your unique o365ready.com number) and click **New Alias (CNAME)**.

In the **Alias (CNAME)** tab in the **Alias name** field, enter **autodiscover**.

In the **Fully qualified domain name (FQDN) for target host**, enter **mail.labXXXXX.o365ready.com** (where XXXXX is your unique o365ready.com number)**.**

Click **OK**.

Switch to Windows PowerShell.

Enter the following command and press Enter:

**PING autodiscover.labXXXXX.o365ready.com** (where XXXXX is your unique o365ready.com number).

Confirm that this request resolves to **mail.labXXXXX.o365ready.com**.

Switch to **LUC-CL1**.

Press the Windows key and in the **Start** screen, type Control and click **Control Panel**.

In **Control Panel**, click **Programs**.

Under **Programs and Features**, click **Turn Windows features on or off**.

In the **Windows Features** dialog box, select the **Telnet Client** check box, then click **OK**.

On the **Windows completed the requested changes** page, click **Close**.

Press the Windows key and in the **Start** screen, type **Command** and click **Command Prompt**.

In the **Command Prompt**, type **telnet** and press Enter.

At the Telnet prompt, type the following on one line and press Enter (where XXXXX is your unique o365ready.com number):

**Open mail.labXXXXX.o365ready.com 25**

You should receive a response similar to the following:

**220 LUC-EX1.lucernepublishing.local Microsoft ESMTP MAIL Service ready at (date),(time).**

Type **EHLO** and press enter.

A list of commands starting with 250 should appear.

Close the command prompt window.

####   Task 4: Create a Certificate Signing Request for a Third-Party SSL Certificate

1.  On **LUC-CL1**, in the **E:\\RDP\_files** folder, double-click **LUC-EX1.rdp** and log on as **LUCERNE\\LucAdmin** with a password of **Pa$$w0rd**.

On the **Do not ask me again for connections to this computer** message, click **Yes**.

On **LUC-EX1**, on the Start screen, click **Exchange Management Shell**.

To create a new certificate request for the on-premises services, at the Exchange Management Shell command prompt type the following command **$Data = New-ExchangeCertificate -GenerateRequest -SubjectName "c=US,o=Lucerne Publishing, cn=fs.labXXXXX.o365Ready.com" -DomainName mail.labXXXXX.o365Ready.com,autodiscover.labXXXXX.o365Ready.com,labXXXXX.o365Ready.com -PrivateKeyExportable $true** and press Enter.

To export the new certificate request to a file, at the Exchange Management Shell command prompt type the following command, and press Enter.
**		Set-Content -path "C:\Temp\LabCertReq.txt" -Value $Data**

####   Task 5: Request and Download a Certificate from a Public Certificate Authority

1.  On **LUC-EX1**, on the taskbar, click **File Explorer**, and browse to **C:\\Temp**.

Double-click **LabCertReq.txt**, to open it in Notepad.

In Notepad, press CTRL+A, to select all the contents of the file, and then press CTRL+C to copy the contents.

Close Notepad.

Press the Windows key to go to the Start screen, and then click **Internet Explorer**.

If you get a **Windows Internet Explorer 10** dialog box, select **Use recommended security and compatibility settings**, and then click **OK**.

In the Address box, type **https://www.digicert.com/friends/exchange.php**, and press Enter.

On the **Exchange Ignite CSR Submission** page, in the **Paste CSR** box, right-click inside the box, and then click **Paste**.

Under **Certificate Details**, in the **Common Name** box, verify the common name is **fs.labXXXXX.O365Ready.com**, (where XXXXX is your unique o365ready.com number).

Review the **Subject Alternative Names** information and verify the names are correct for **mail.labXXXXX.o365ready.com**, **autodiscover.labXXXXX.o365ready.com**, and **labXXXXX.o365ready.com**.
**WARNING:** If ANY of the subject alternative names are missing, then something went wrong in the prior task. If this occurs, you must: 1) go back and repeat the prior task (Create a Certificate Signing Request for a Third-Party SSL Certificate), and then 2) restart the steps in this task.
All the subject alternative names listed here must be correct before you can proceed; otherwise, future lab steps will fail.

Under **Certificate Delivery**, in the **Email Address and Email Address (again)** boxes, type hleitner@lucernepublishingXXXX.onmicrosoft.com (where XXXX is your unique Lucerne Publishing number).

Select the **I agree to the Terms of Service above** check box, and then click **Submit**.

In Internet Explorer, click the **New Tab** button.

In the new tab, type **http://mail.Office365.com**, and press Enter.

Sign in to Office 365 as **hleitner@lucernepublishingXXXX.onmicrosoft.com** (where XXXX is your unique Lucerne Publishing number) and a password of **Pa$$w0rd**.

In the **Inbox**, locate the email message from **DigiCert** with the zip file attachment.

Click the **DigiCertSSL zip** file attachment.

In the Internet Explorer notification bar, click **Save**, then click **Save as**, then browse to **C:\\temp, and then click Save**.

In Internet Explorer, click **Open folder**, then right-click **DigiCert\_certs.zip**, and click **Extract All**.

In the **Extract Compressed (Zipped) Folders** dialog box, click **Extract**.

####   Task 6: Install the Third-Party SSL Certificate

1.  On **LUC-EX1**, switch to **Exchange Management Shell command prompt**.

To import a new certificate for the on-premises services, at the Exchange Management Shell command prompt type the following command, and press Enter.
**Import-ExchangeCertificate -FileData ([Byte[]]$(Get-Content -Path C:\Temp\DigiCert_certs\certs\fs_labXXXXX_o365ready_com.cer -Encoding byte -ReadCount 0))**

To export the a new certificate with the private key for the on-premises services, at the Exchange Management Shell command prompt type the following command, and press Enter.

In the **Username and Password** dialog box, type **Admin** for the **Username** and **Pa$$w0rd** for the **Password**, and then click **OK**.

To export the new certificate data to a file, at the Exchange Management Shell command prompt type the following command, and press Enter.

####   Task 7: Configure Exchange Server To Use the Lab Certificate for Mail Services

1.  On **LUC-CL1**, on the Task Bar, right-click Internet Explorer and click **Start InPrivate Browsing**.

In the Address bar, enter **https://mail.labXXXXX.O365Ready.com/owa** (where XXXXX is your unique o365ready.com number) and press Enter.
Note the There is a problem with this website's security certificate message.

Click **Continue to this Web site**. Remain at the **Outlook Web App** logon screen and note the certificate error message in the Address bar.

Switch to **LUC-EX1**.

On **LUC-EX1**, switch to the **Exchange Management Shell command prompt.**

To assign the new certificate for the on-premises services, at the **Exchange Management Shell** command prompt, type the following command and press Enter.

Press Enter again to confirm the operation in the Exchange Management Shell.

####   Task 8: Verify the Lab Certificate is Correctly Installed

1.  On **LUC-EX1**, in the Taskbar, click **Server Manager**.

In Server Manager, from the **Tools** menu, click **Services**.

Scroll down the list of services, then right-click **Microsoft Exchange IMAP 4** and click **Properties**.

In the **General** tab, next to startup type, click **Automatic**.

Click **Start.**

Click **OK** when the service has started.

Right-click the **Microsoft Exchange IMAP 4 Backend** service and click **Properties**.

In the **General** tab, next to startup type, click **Automatic**.

Click **Start.**

Click **OK** when the service has started.

Close the Microsoft Exchange IMAP 4 backend Properties dialog box.

Close the **Services** console.

Switch to **LUC-CL1**.

In the InPrivate browsing session of Internet Explorer, click the **Refresh** button.

Confirm that the certificate error warning message has now disappeared from the **Address** bar.

Log on as **LUCERNE\\CEmond** with a password of **Pa$$w0rd**.

If prompted, under **Language**, select **English (United States)**, under **Time zone**, select **Coordinated Universal Time UTC)**, and then click **Save**.

To the right of the Address bar, click the **padlock symbol.**

Confirm that the **Certificate name** is **fs.labXXXXX.o365ready.**com (where XXXXX is your unique o365ready.com number) and the subject alternate names include **mail.labXXXXX.o365ready.com**.

Click **New mail**.

In the **To** box, enter **HLeitner@lucernepublishingXXXX.onmicrosoft.com** (where XXXX is your unique Lucerne Publishing number).

Add a **Subject** and some body text.

Click **SEND**.

In Internet Explorer, click the **New Tab** button.

In the new tab, type **https://outlook.office365.com/owa** and press Enter.

Log on as **HLeitner@lucernepublishingXXXX.onmicrosoft.com** (where XXXX is your unique Lucerne Publishing number) with a password of **Pa$$w0rd**.

In **Inbox**, click the message that has arrived and click **REPLY**.

Enter some text in the body of the message and click **SEND**.

Switch back to the tab for **Coralie Emond** and check that the reply message appears.

Close all tabs on Internet Explorer.

####   Task 9: Verify that Outlook Anywhere Works with On-Premises Exchange

1.  On **LUC-CL1**, on the Task Bar, click **Internet Explorer**, and navigate to **https://testconnectivity.microsoft.com**.

In the **Exchange Server** tab, **click Outlook Autodiscover**, and then click **Next**.

In the **Outlook Autodiscover** page, in **Email address** enter **hleitner@labXXXXX.o365ready.com (where XXXXX is your unique o365ready.com number)**, in **Domain\\User** **name**, enter **LUCERNE\\HLeitner** and in the **Password** and **Confirm Password** boxes, enter **Pa$$w0rd**.

Check the **I understand that I must use the credentials of a working account** box.

Under **Verification,** enter the characters from the Captcha into the box and click **Verify**.

Click **Perform Test**.

On the **Connectivity Test Successful** **with** **Warnings** page, expand the test steps to note that the failure was due to not connecting to the https://labXXXXX.o365ready.com/AutoDiscover/AutoDiscover.xml endpoint. However, connection to https://autodiscover.labXXXXX.o365ready.com/AutoDiscover/AutoDiscover.xml succeeds.

Click **Start Over**.

In the **Exchange Server** tab, click **Outlook Connectivity**, and click **Next**.

In the **Outlook Connectivity** page, in **Email address**, enter **hleitner@labXXXXX.o365ready.com** (where XXXXX is your unique o365ready.com number), in **Domain\\User name**, enter **LUCERNE\\HLeitner** and in the **Password** and **Confirm Password** boxes, enter **Pa$$w0rd**.

Click **Manually specify server settings**.

In **RPC Proxy** **server**, enter **mail.labXXXXX.o365ready.com** (where XXXXX is your unique o365ready.com number).

In **Exchange server**, enter **LUC-EX1.LUCERNEPUBLISHING.LOCAL**.

The **Mutual authentication principal name** will autocomplete to **msstd: mail.labXXXXX.o365ready.com** (where XXXXX is your unique o365ready.com number).

Under **RPC proxy authentication method**, click **Ntlm**.

Check the **I understand that I must use the credentials of a working account** box.

Verification should still apply from the previous test. If not, repeat Step 5 in the previous set of steps.

Click **Perform Test**.

On the **Connectivity Test Successful with Warnings** page, expand **Test Steps** to identify the issue.

**Note:** The failure is due to the certificate common name not matching the mutual authentication string. However, a match was found in the subject alternative name extension.

Close Internet Explorer.

You have now configured on-premises Exchange Server for migration.

**Results**: Lucerne Publishing has ensured that Exchange Server is ready for a cutover migration.
