Module 6

Lab: Configuring DNS Records and Migrating to Exchange Online
-------------------------------------------------------------

Scenario

Lucerne Publishing is now well into the Deploy phase and is in the process of adopting Office 365. The company needs to ensure that the cutover migration to Exchange Online is successful and that the DNS records for Office 365 are correctly configured. In addition, it needs to verify that all parent and subdomains have been added, and that the service records for different Office 365 services have been configured.

Objectives

The objectives of this lab are to:

Add and configure domains and subdomains in Office 365.

Carry out the cutover migration to Exchange Online.

Configure DNS records for Exchange, SharePoint and Lync in Office 365.

Lab Setup

Estimated Time: 60 minutes

Virtual machine: 20346C-LUC-CL1

Username: **Student1**

Password: **Pa$$w0rd**

Where you see references in the steps to lucernepublishingXXXX.onmicrosoft.com, you should replace XXXX with the unique Lucerne Publishing number that you were assigned when you set up your Office 365 accounts in Module 1, Lab 1B, Exercise 2, Task 3, Step 5.

Where you see references to labXXXXX.o365ready.com, you should replace XXXXX with the unique o365ready.com number you were assigned when you registered your IP address at www.o365ready.com in Module 2, Lab 2B, Exercise 1, Task 2, Step 6.

### Exercise 1: Perform a cutover migration to Exchange Online

Scenario

If Coralie Emond is feeling under pressure, she’s trying hard not to let it show. Because Coralie is the Exchange guru at Lucerne Publishing, Heidi has decided that she should perform the Office 365 cutover migration, supported by Alain Richer. Coralie will also need to configure DNS domains with Office 365.

To carry out this process, she needs an administrator account on-premises and a global administrator account on Office 365. She also needs to access the on-premises DNS console and be able to reconfigure mail exchanger, canonical name and address records.

When she has completed the cutover migration, Coralie must configure DNS records for the Office 365 services and verify that those records are accessible.

The main tasks for this exercise are as follows:

1. Connect an Online Account to on-Premises Exchange Account

2. Add a Custom Domain to Office 365

3. Add a Subdomain to Office 365 and Change the Default Domain

4. Appoint a Migration Administrator

5. Create a Migration Endpoint in Office 365

6. Change User Principal Names to Ensure Migration

7. Perform the Batch Migration

8. Clean Up the Batch Migration

####   Task 1: Connect an Online Account to on-Premises Exchange Account

1.  On **LUC-CL1**, on the Task Bar, right-click **Internet Explorer** and click **Start InPrivate Browsing**

**Note**: You use an InPrivate browsing session so that you can log on with a separate set of credentials.

In the InPrivate session, type **https://mail.labXXXXX.o365ready.com/owa** (where XXXXX is your unique o365ready.com number) and press Enter.

In **Domain\\user name**, enter **LUCERNE\\LCartier** and in the **Password** field, enter **Pa$$w0rd**, then click **Sign in**.

Click **Continue to this Web site**.

If requested, set your language to **US English** and your time zone to **UTC**, and then click **Save**.

In **Luc Cartier’s** session, click **New mail** and in the **To** field, enter **Coralie Emond**. Add a subject and suitable text and click **Send**.

In Internet Explorer, click **New tab** and then navigate to **outlook.office365.com**.

Log on as **Cemond@lucernepublishingXXXX.onmicrosoft.com** (where XXXX is your unique Lucerne Publishing number) with a password of **Pa$$w0rd**.

If requested, set your language to **US English** and your time zone to **UTC**, then click **Save**.

Review the **Inbox** and confirm that none of the messages from Luc Cartier are there.

On the right-hand side, click the **Settings** cog and click **Options**.

In **Account**, click **Connected accounts**.

In **Connected accounts**, click the **+** sign.

In **New account connection**, enter **cemond@labXXXXX.o365ready.com** (where XXXXX is your unique o365ready.com number) as the **Email address** and a **Password** of **Pa$$w0rd**, and then and click **OK** in the right corner.

Click **OK** on the finished page.

In the **Connected accounts** page, click **Change default reply address**, select **cemond@labXXXXX.o365ready.com** (where XXXXX is your unique o365ready.com number), and then click **Save**.

Under **Connected accounts**, note the status of the **cemond@labXXXXX.o365ready.com** account is **Downloading**.

Click **Options** in the left corner to return to the **Mailbox** page.

Note the emails from the on-premises server appearing in Exchange Online.

Click one of Luc Cartier’s messages and click **REPLY**.

**Note**: The **From** field should be displayed. If it does not, click the ellipsis **…** button and click **Show from**.

Note that the **From** field is set to **cemond@labXXXXX.o365ready.com**, (where XXXXX is your unique o365ready.com number).

Enter some text in the body of the message and click **SEND**.

Switch to Luc Cartier’s session and check that the message has arrived. Note that the message is sent on behalf of **cemond@labXXXXX.o365ready.com** (where XXXXX is your unique o365ready.com number).

Click **Reply** and note that the **Reply address** is **cemond@labXXXXX.o365ready.com** (where XXXXX is your unique o365ready.com number).

Click **DISCARD**.

Log off from Luc Cartier’s account.

####   Task 2: Add a Custom Domain to Office 365

1.  In **LUC-CL1**, on the Task Bar, right-click **Internet Explorer**, click **Start** **InPrivate Browsing**, and then navigate to **login.microsoftonline.com**.

Log on as **HLeitner@lucernepublishingXXXX.onmicrosoft.com** (where XXXX is your unique Lucerne Publishing number) with a password of **Pa$$w0rd**.

Click **Admin**, then click **Office 365**.

In the left-hand navigation, click **Domains**.

Click **Add domain**.

Click **Let’s get started** to begin the process.

In the text box on the **Which domain do you want to use?** page, enter your domain name in the form of **labXXXXX.O365Ready.com** (where XXXXX is your unique o365ready.com number).

ASK ANOTHER STUDENT TO CONFIRM THAT YOU HAVE TYPED THE NAME IN CORRECTLY.

After confirmation, click **Next**.

Write down the **TXT** record shown in the **TXT value** column. This entry will be similar to MS=msXXXXXXXX. Record this value below:

MS=\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_

Switch to **LUC-DC1**.

In **DNS Manager**, right-click **labXXXXX.o365Ready.com** (where XXXXX is your unique o365ready.com number), and click **Other New Records**.

Under **Select a resource record type**, scroll down to **Text (TXT)** and click **Create Record**.

In the **New Resource Record** box, leave the **Record name** field blank.

In the **Text** field, enter **MS=msXXXXXXXX** that you recorded in Step 10.

Click **OK** to create the record.

In the **Resource Record type** dialog box, click **Done**.

On **LUC-CL1**, press the **Windows** key, type **Command**, and click **Command Prompt**.

In the Command Prompt, type **NSLOOKUP** and press Enter.

At the NSLOOKUP prompt, type **server *\<IPAddress\>***, where ***\<IPAddress\>*** is the external address of the Lucerne Publishing datacenter that you obtained after running the **GetIPAddress** script in Module 2, Lab B, Exercise 1, Task 1, Step 2. You should see a message saying:

Default Server: \<*IPAddress*\>

Address: \<*IPAddress*\>.

where \<IPAddress\> is your external address from your data center that you just entered into the **server *\<IPAddress\>*** command above.

Type **ls –t TXT labXXXXX.o365ready.com** (where XXXXX is your unique o365ready.com number) and press Enter.

You should receive a message that the query was refused. This is expected behavior.

Switch to **LUC-DC1**, and in the **DNS Manager** console, right click the **labXXXXX.o365ready.com** domain and then click **Properties**.

In the **labXXXXX.o365ready.com Properties** dialog box, click the **Zone Transfers** tab.

In the **Zone Transfers** tab, click **To any server**, and then click **Apply**.

On **LUC-CL1**, in the NSLOOKUP prompt, type **ls –t TXT labXXXXX.o365ready.com** (where XXXXX is your unique o365ready.com number) and press Enter.

**Note**: If this step and step 28 do not work, check with your instructor as your training location may be blocking TCP Port 53, which is required for DNS zone transfers.

Check that the “MS=XXXXXXXX” value is present and is the same as that in the Office 365 Admin Center.

Type **ls –d labXXXXX.o365ready.com** (where XXXXX is your unique o365ready.com number) and press Enter.

Note the record(s) from the **labXXXXX.o365ready.com** zone.

Switch back to **LUC-DC1**, and in the **Zone Transfers** tab on the **labXXXXX.o365ready.com Properties** dialog box, click the **Only to servers listed on the Name Servers** tab, and then click **OK**.

Switch back to **LUC-CL1** and in the **Office 365 Admin** console, click **Okay, I’ve added the record**.

You should receive a message saying **We have verified that you own labXXXXX.o365ready.com**.

Click “**X**” to close the page.

In the **Add a domain to Office 365** page, click **Cancel.**

####   Task 3: Add a Subdomain to Office 365 and Change the Default Domain

1.  Switch to **LUC-DC1** and in **DNS Manager**, right-click **labXXXXX.o365ready.com** (where XXXXX is your unique o365ready.com number) and click **New Domain**.

In the **New DNS Domain** dialog box, type **content** and then click **OK**.

You should now see a **content** subdomain under **labXXXXX.o365ready.com**.

In **LUC-CL1**, in the **Office admin** console, click **Domains**.

Click **+ Add Domain**.

In the text box on the **Which domain do you want to use?** page, enter your **domain name** in the form of **content.labXXXXX.O365Ready.com** (where XXXXX is your unique o365ready.com number), and then click **Next.**

You should receive a message saying **We’ve verified that you own content.labXXXXX.o365ready.com**.

Click **Next**.

On the **Let's update your current Office 365 users to content.labXXXXX.O365Ready.com** page (where XXXXX is your unique o365ready.com number), scroll to the bottom of the page and click on **Skip this step.**

On the next page, click **Skip this step** again.

On the **Get ready to update DNS records to work with Office 365** page, click **Next**.

On the **Which services do you want to use with content.labXXXXX.O365Ready.com** page (where XXXXX is your unique o365ready.com number), clear **Outlook for** **email, calendar and contacts**, clear **Lync for** **instant messaging** **and online meetings**, then click on **Next**.

Click **Finish**.

In the top right corner of the **Office 365 admin center**, click **Lucerne Publishing (edit).**

Under **Default domain**, verify that it is set to **labXXXXX.o365ready.com**.

Click **Save**.

####   Task 4: Appoint a Migration Administrator

1.  On **LUC-DC1**, click **Server Manager**.

In **Tools**, click **Active Directory Users and Computers**.

In **Active Directory Users and Computers**, expand **Lucernepublishing.local**, click **Accounts**, right-click **Coralie Emond** and click **Add to a group**.

In the **Select Groups** dialog box, under **Enter the object names to select**, enter **Domain Admins** and click **OK**.

In the **Active Directory Domain Services** dialog box, click **OK**.

On **LUC-CL1**, in the **Office 365 admin** console, click **Admin**, and then click **Office 365**.

Click **Users,** click **Active users**, and then click **Coralie Emond**.

In the **Details** page, click **Settings**.

Under **Assign role**, click **Yes** and from the list, select **Global Administrator**.

In the **Alternate email address** field, type **user@alt.none**.

Click **Save**.

Click **Heidi** **Leitner** and click **Sign** **out**.

####   Task 5: Create a Migration Endpoint in Office 365

1.  In the **Office 365 login** page, enter **cemond@lucernepublishingXXXX.onmicrosoft.com** (where XXXX is your unique Lucerne Publishing number) and **Pa$$w0rd** and click **Sign in**.

In the **Don’t lose access to your account** page, under **Country or region**, select **Switzerland**. In the **Mobile phone number** field type **5551000,** and then click **Save and continue**.

In **Admin**, click **Exchange**.

In **Recipients**, click **Migration**.

In **Migration**, click the ellipsis **...**, then click **Migration** **endpoints**.

In **Migration endpoints**, click the **+** sign.

In new **Migration endpoint**, click **Outlook Anywhere**, and then click **Next**.

On the **Enter on-premises account credentials** page, complete the following fields:

Email address: **cemond@labXXXXX.o365ready.com** (where XXXXX is your unique o365ready.com number)

Account with privileges: **LUCERNE\\Cemond**

Password of account with privileges: **Pa$$w0rd**

Click **Next**.

If you receive a failure message, enter the following information:

1.  Exchange server: **LUC-EX1.LUCERNEPUBLISHING.LOCAL**

2.  RPC proxy server: **mail.labXXXXX.o365ready.com** (where XXXXX is your unique o365ready.com number)

Click **More options** and select the following settings:

1.  Authentication: **NTLM**

2.  Mailbox permission: **Domain Admin**

Click **Next**.

In the **New migration endpoint** page, enter the following information:

1.  Migration endpoint name: **Lucerne Migration**

2.  Maximum concurrent migrations: **10**

3.  Maximum concurrent incremental syncs: **10**

Click **New**.

In the **Migration endpoints** page, click **Close**.

####   Task 6: Change User Principal Names to Ensure Migration

1.  In the **Migration** page, click the **+** sign and then click **Migrate to Exchange Online**.

In the **New migration batch** page, click **Cutover migration** and then click **Next**.

In the **Confirm the migration endpoint** page, check that the **Exchange server** is **LUC-EX1.LUCERNEPUBLISHING.LOCAL** and the **RPC proxy server** is **mail.labXXXXX.o365ready.com** (where XXXXX is your unique o365ready.com number), and then click **Next**.

In the **New migration batch name**, enter **Lucerne Migration** and then click Next.

In the **Start the batch** page, check that **Coralie Emond** is the name showing, click **Manually start the batch later**, and then click **New**.

In the **Migration dashboard**, note the number of mailboxes to migrate and the current status.

Click the **Start** arrow.

In the **Warning** dialog box, click **Yes**.

Wait until the mailboxes have synced. Mailbox sync at this point typically takes 10-15 minutes.

**Note**: All the mailboxes that have a UPN of **lucernepublishingXXXX.onmicrosoft.com** will fail to sync at this point.

In the **Office 365 admin center**, click **Admin** then click **Office 365**.

Click **Users** and then click **Active Users**.

Click the check box to select **All users**.

Click the **(Edit)** symbol.

Click **Details**, then under Domain, select **labXXXXX.o365ready.com**.

Click **Next**.

In **Settings**, click **Next**.

In **Assign licenses**, click **Submit**.

**Note:** **cemond@labXXXXX.o365ready.com** has the status of **Skipped**. You cannot edit yourself through bulk edit.

Click **Finish**.

If a message box appears, click **Yes**.

In **Active Users**, click the box next to **Coralie Emond** and click the (**Edit**) symbol.

Click **Details**, then under **User name**, after the **@** sign, select **labXXXXX.o365ready.com**.

Click **Save**.

In the warning message **Are you sure you want to make this change?,** click **Yes**.

In the **Finish your user ID change** message box, click **OK**.

####   Task 7: Perform the Batch Migration

1.  Click Internet Explorer and browse to **login.microsoftonline.com**.

Log on as **cemond@labXXXXX.o365ready.com** (where XXXXX is your unique o365ready.com number) with a password of **Pa$$w0rd**.

Click **Admin** and then click **Exchange. **

In **Recipients**, click **Migration**.

Click the **Resume** button (it is the same as the Start button).

In the warning message, click **Yes**.

The status will read **Syncing**.
**Note:** This synchronization can take anywhere from 10 to 60 minutes. You can continue with the next steps when the user accounts appear.

In the **Exchange admin center**, click **Admin** then click **Office 365**.

Click **Users** and then click **Active Users**.

Check the boxes for all imported users and then click the (**Edit**) icon.

In the **Details** page, click **Next**.

In the **Settings** page, under **Set user location**, click **Switzerland** and click **Next**.

In the **Assign licenses** page, click **Replace existing license assignments**, click **Microsoft Office 365 Plan E3**, and then click **Submit**.

In the **Results** page, click **Finish**.

In the **Office 365 admin center**, click **Admin**, then click **Exchange**.

In **Recipients**, click **Migration**.

Under **Mailbox status**, click **View details**.

The number of mailboxes that synced may vary per student. If LucAdmin’s account does not sync, ignore this result.

Click **Close**.

In the **Exchange Admin Center**, in **Recipients**, under **Migration**, click the migration batch, and then click the (**Delete**) icon.

In the **Confirmation** dialog box, click **Yes**.

####   Task 8: Clean Up the Batch Migration

1.  Switch to **LUC-EX1**.

In the Start page or on the Task bar, click **Internet** **Explorer**.

Browse to **https://mail.labXXXXX.o365ready.com/ECP** (where XXXXX is your unique o365ready.com number).

In **Domain\\user name**, enter **LUCERNE\\LucAdmin**, in **Password**, enter **Pa$$w0rd** and then click **Sign in**.

If prompted, under **Language** select **English (United States)** and under **Time zone**, select **(UTC+01:00) Amsterdam, Berlin, Bern, Rome, Stockholm, Vienna**, and then click **Save**.

In the **ECP**, click **Recipients** and click **Mailboxes**.

Notice all the current mailboxes.

Press the Windows key and in the Start screen, type **notepad**.

Click **Notepad**, and in the Notepad window, enter each of the following six commands on a separate line, each starting with the **$enableusers** command:

**$enableusers = Get-User -Filter {RecipientType -eq "UserMailbox"} -OrganizationalUnit "Accounts" **

**$enableusers | foreach { Disable-Mailbox $\_.SamAccountName }**

**$enableusers | foreach { Enable-MailUser $\_ -externalEmailAddress $\_.UserPrincipalName.toString() }**

**$enableusers = Get-User -Filter {RecipientType -eq "UserMailbox"} -OrganizationalUnit "Sales" **

**$enableusers | foreach { Disable-Mailbox $\_.SamAccountName }**

**$enableusers | foreach { Enable-MailUser $\_ -externalEmailAddress $\_.UserPrincipalName.toString() } **

Click **File** and click **Save**.

In the **Save As** dialog box, save the file as **C:\\temp\\MailUser.ps1**.

Ensure that **Save as** type is set to **All Files (\*.\*).**

Click **Save**.

Press the Windows key and click **Exchange Management Shell**.

In the **Exchange Management Shell**, type **cd C:\\temp** and press Enter.

Type **.\\MailUser.ps1** and press Enter.

Press Enter to disable each mailbox. You should see the users listed as mail-enabled users. The number of users may vary per student.

Switch back to **EAC** and click **Contacts**.

Click the **Refresh** icon.

You should now see the mail-enabled contacts, all with **username@labXXXXX.o365ready.com** addresses. The number of mail-enabled contacts may vary per student.

**Results**: Lucerne Publishing will have moved their email system to Exchange Online and set up DNS records for the Office 365 services.

### Exercise 2: Configure DNS Records for Services

Scenario

With the cutover migration successfully completed and the mailbox content moved across to Exchange Online, Coralie can now set up the DNS records for the Office 365 services. Office 365 generates the correct DNS entries, and then Coralie needs to set up those entries in DNS. When she has completed this task, Office 365 checks that the correct records are in place.

The main tasks for this exercise are as follows:

1. Configure DNS Settings for Exchange Online

2. Check Lync Online functionality

3. Configure DNS Settings for Lync Online

####   Task 1: Configure DNS Settings for Exchange Online

1.  On **LUC-CL1**, in the **Office 365 admin center**, logged in as **Coralie Emond** (cemond@labXXXXX.o365ready.com) under the **Admin** menu, click **Office 365**.

In the left-hand column, click **Domains**.

In the list of domains, click **Complete Setup** next to **labXXXXX.o365ready.com** (where XXXXX is your unique o365ready.com number).

In the **Add a new domain to Office 365** page, click **Step 2** **Add users**.

On the **Add new users** page, click **If you don’t want to add any users, you can skip this step** at the bottom of the page.

On the **Get ready to update DNS records to work with Office 365** page, click **Next.**

On the **Which services do you want to use with** **labXXXXX.o365ready.com** page, ensure that only **Outlook for Email, calendar, and contacts** is checked, and then click **Next**.

Note the settings in the **Add the following DNS records for labXXXXX.o365ready.com** page.
**IMPORTANT:** DO NOT CLOSE THIS PAGE.

Switch to **LUC-DC1**.

In **DNS Manager**, on the **View** menu, click **Advanced** to display the TTL value on records.

In the **labXXXXX.o365ready.com** zone, double-click the **Mail Exchanger (MX) record**.

In the **Mail Exchanger (MX)** tab, leave the **Host or child domain** field blank.

The **Fully qualified domain name (FQDN**) should be **labXXXXX.o365ready.com**.

In the **Fully qualified domain name (FQDN) of mail server** field, change the value from **mail.labXXXXX.o365ready.com** to the value from POINTS TO ADDRESS from the Office 365 console. The value will be something like **labXXXXX-o365ready-com.mail.protection.outlook.com**.

Leave the default **TTL** value as **1 hour**.

Change the **Mail server priority** to **0** and click **OK**.

Double-click autodiscover.**labXXXXX.o365ready.com.**

In the **Alias (CNAME)** tab, in the **Fully qualified domain name (FQDN) for target host**, replace the current value with **autodiscover.outlook.com**, and then click **OK**.

Right-click the **labXXXXX.o365ready.com** zone (where XXXXX is your unique o365ready.com number), and click **New Alias (CNAME)**.

In the Alias (CNAME) tab, in **Alias name**, enter **msoid**.

In the **Fully qualified domain name (FQDN) for target host** field, type **clientconfig.microsoftonline-p.net** and then click b

Right-click **labXXXXX.o365ready.com** and click **Other New Records**.

In the **Resource Record Type** dialog box, scroll down and select **Text (TXT)**, then click **Create Record**.

In the **Text field**, enter the value specified in the **TXT VALUE** column in the **Office 365 add these dns records for labXXXXX.o365ready.com at your dns hosting provider** page (typically this value is **v=spf1 include:spf.protection.outlook.com** -**all**, but it may be different in your location), then click **OK**.

**Important**: Check that when you create this DNS record, you do not include any trailing or leading spaces and that it is an **en-dash (–),** not an **em-dash (—)**, otherwise the DNS check will fail.

In the **Resource Record Type** dialog box, click **Done**.

Switch back to **LUC-CL1**.

In the **Office 365 admin console**, click **Okay, I've added the records**.

If the check does not complete, wait 15 minutes and then check again.

You should see a message saying **You're done! labXXXXX.o365ready.com is ready to work with the Office 365 services you selected**.

Click **Finish**.

Switch to your personal email account and send a message to **cemond@labXXXXX.o365ready.com**.

On **LUC-CL1**, switch to Coralie’s Office 365 login. Confirm that the email appears in Office 365.

You have now set up Exchange Online to work with a custom domain.

####   Task 2: Check Lync Online functionality

1.  Click **Office 365** and then click **Outlook**.

In **Outlook**, note that there is a grey patch between Coralie’s name and Admin.

Click on **Coralie Emond** and in the drop-down box, click **Sign in to IM**.

Repeat step 3 and note the message saying **“There’s a problem with IM”.**

Confirm that the grey patch does not go green.

*Why is IM not working for this account?
*Because the user account has been changed to **username@labXXXXX.o365ready.com**, and this domain has not yet been set up for Lync Online.

####   Task 3: Configure DNS Settings for Lync Online

1.  Click **Admin**, then click **Office 365**.

On the left-hand column, click **Domains**.

In the list of domains, click **labXXXXX.o365ready.com** (where XXXXX is your unique o365ready.com number), then click **Manage DNS** in the right pane, and then click **Change domain purpose**.

Click the **Lync for instant messaging and online meetings** check box, and then click **Next.**

Keep the **Add following DNS records for labXXXXX.o365ready.com at your DNS hosting provider** page open.

Switch to the **LUC-DC1** virtual machine in the Lucerne Publishing data center.

Right-click the **labXXXXX.o365ready.com** zone and select **Other New Records**.

In the **Resource Record Type** dialog box, scroll down the list and click **Service Location**, and then click **Create Record**.

In the **Service Location (SRV)** tab, enter the following information and then click **OK**:

1.  Service: **\_sip**

2.  Protocol: **\_tls**

3.  Priority: **100**

4.  Weight: **1**

5.  Port number: **443**

6.  Host offering this service: **sipdir.online.lync.com**

7.  Time to live: 1 hour (default)

In the **Resource Record Type** dialog box, click **Create Record**.

In the **Service Location (SRV)** tab, enter the following information and then click **OK**:

1.  Service: \_sipfederationtls

2.  Protocol: **\_tcp**

3.  Priority: **100**

4.  Weight: **1**

5.  Port number: **5061**

6.  Host offering this service: **sipfed.online.lync.com**

7.  Time to live: 1 hour (default)

In the **Resource Record Type** dialog box, scroll back up the list and click **Alias (CNAME)**, and then click **Create Record**.

In the **Alias (CNAME)** tab, enter the following information, and then click **OK**:

1.  Alias name: **sip**

2.  Fully qualified domain name: **sip.labXXXXX.o365ready.com** (where XXXXX is your unique o365ready.com number)

3.  Fully qualified domain name (FQDN) for target host: **sipdir.online.lync.com**

4.  Time to live: **1 hour (default)**

In the **Resource Record Type** dialog box, click **Create Record**.

In the **Alias (CNAME)** tab, enter the following information, and then click **OK**:

1.  Alias name: **lyncdiscover**

2.  Fully qualified domain name: **lyncdiscover.labXXXXX.o365ready.com** (where XXXXX is your unique o365ready.com number)

3.  Fully qualified domain name (FQDN) for target host: **webdir.online.lync.com**

4.  Time to live: **1 hour (default)**

In the **Resource Record Type** dialog box, click **Done.**

Switch back to **LUC-CL1**, then in the **Office 365 admin console**, click **Okay, I’ve added the records**.
**Note:** Lync can sometimes take more than 15 minutes to register.

You should now see the message: **You're records are correct and labXXXXX.o365ready.com is all set up.** Click **Finish.**

In the **Office 365 admin** console, click **Outlook**, then click **Coralie Emond**.

The options for IM should appear and the status patch should turn green.

In **LUC-CL1**, on the Task Bar, right-click Internet Explorer and click **Start InPrivate Browsing**.

In Internet Explorer, navigate to **login.microsoftonline.com** and log on with a **User name** of **Hleitner@labXXXXX.o365ready.com** (where XXXXX is your unique o365ready.com number) and a **Password** of **Pa$$w0rd**.

Click **Outlook**, and then click the **New** button in the upper left corner.

In the **To:** field, enter **Coralie Emond**.

When the name resolves, note her IM status. It may take a couple of minutes for her status to update.

Click **Coralie Emond** in the **To** field.

In the pop-up box, click the **IM** icon on the right.

In the IM pop-up window, type a message and press Enter.

Switch to the **Coralie Emond** Internet Explorer window. If your session has timed out, log in again.

In the **IM request** dialog box, click **Accept**.

Reply to the IM. Note that you can now send IMs between the two users.

Close Coralie’s Office 365 session

**Results**: Lucerne Publishing has configured the DNS records for Exchange Online, SharePoint Online, and Lync Online.
