Module 7

Lab: Administering Exchange Online
----------------------------------

Scenario

With Exchange Online now implemented as part of the Deploy Phase, Lucerne Publishing is administering its user accounts both in the cloud and on-premises. Heidi has moved on to manage protection policies, which are very important for the company. She is implementing personal archives, together with anti-spam and anti-malware settings. To assist in communicating with different associates and contacts, she is also setting up mail contacts and mail users in Exchange Online.

Objectives

By the end of this lab, you should be able to:

Configure personal archive polices, customize retention tags, and apply retention policies.

Set anti-malware and anti-spam policies in line with company requirements.

Add external user email addresses as both mail contacts and mail users.

Create and schedule events with resource mailboxes.

Lab Setup

Estimated Time: 90 minutes

Virtual machine: 20346C-LUC-CL1

Username: **Student1**

Password: **Pa$$w0rd**

Where you see references in the steps to lucernepublishingXXXX.onmicrosoft.com, you should replace XXXX with the unique Lucerne Publishing number that you are assigned when you set up your Office 365 accounts in Module 1, Lab 1B, Exercise 2, Task 3, Step 5.

Where you see references to labXXXXX.o365ready.com, you should replace XXXXX with the unique O365ready.com number you are assigned when you registered your IP address at www.o365ready.com in Module 2, Lab 2B, Exercise 1, Task 2, Step 6.

### Exercise 1: Configure Personal Archive Policies

Scenario

Lucerne Publishing is a company that does a lot of emailing with increasingly large attachments. The organization also needs to retain content for a considerable length of time without clogging up mailboxes. Hence, the archiving feature in Exchange Online was particularly appealing. The plan is to enable archive mailboxes for users and then configure additional retention polices so that folders such as Sent Items are regularly cleared out to the users' online archives.

The main tasks for this exercise are as follows:

1. Enable Personal Archive for Mailboxes

2. Use Personal Archives

3. Create a Retention Tag in Exchange Admin Center

4. Create a Custom Retention Tag in PowerShell and Add Tags to a Policy

5. Apply Policies to Folders and Messages

####   Task 1: Enable Personal Archive for Mailboxes

1.  On your host computer, switch to the **20346C-LUC-CL1** virtual machine.

Ensure you are logged on as **Student1** with a password of **Pa$$word**.

On **LUC-CL1**, on the Task Bar, click Internet Explorer, and navigate to **login.microsoftonline.com**.

In **User name** and **Password**, enter **hleitner@labXXXXX.o365ready.com** (where XXXXX is your unique O365ready.com number) and **Pa$$w0rd**, respectively.

On the Task Bar, right-click **Internet** **Explorer** and select **Start** **InPrivate** **Browsing**.

Navigate to **login.microsoftonline.com**.

In **User** **name** and **Password**, enter **cemond@labXXXXX.o365ready.com** (where XXXXX is your unique O365ready.com number) and **Pa$$w0rd**, respectively.

Click **Outlook**.

Note that there is only an Inbox with some folders there.

Note that you may have a message about an account error.

Click the configuration cog and click **Options**.

In **Options**, click **Connected accounts**.

Click **cemond@labXXXXX.o365ready.com** (where XXXXX is your unique O365ready.com number), and then click the **Delete** icon.

In the warning message, click **Yes**.

Click the **Option** button to go back to the Outlook page.

Switch to Heidi Leitner’s session, under **Admin**, click **Exchange**.

In **Recipients**, click **Coralie Emond**, and in the right-hand pane, under **In-Place Archive**, click **Enable**.

In the warning message, click **Yes**.

In the right-hand pane, under **In-Place Archive**, click **View details**.

Note the warning. Click **OK**.

View the information in **Archive mailbox**.

Click **Cancel**.

Switch to the **InPrivate session** of Internet Explorer.

Click **Coralie** **Emond** and click **Sign** **Out**.

Close Internet Explorer.

####   Task 2: Use Personal Archives

1.  Open an **InPrivate session** of Internet Explorer and navigate to **login.microsoftonline.com**.

In **User name** and **Password**, enter **cemond@labXXXXX.o365ready.com** (where XXXXX is your unique O365ready.com number) and **Pa$$w0rd**, respectively.

Click **Outlook**.

Click **More to show**.

If you click on the **In-Place Archive – Coralie Emond** folder, you may get a message saying **Your archive appears to be unavailable. Please try again later.** Click **OK**.

Switch back to Heidi Leitner’s session and with Coralie Emond’s name selected, under **In-Place Archive**, click **View details**.

Notice that the error message may still appear. This is a timing issue.

Switch back to **Coralie Emond’s** Inbox.

Click the **In-Place Archive – Coralie Emond** folder and confirm you can access it successfully.

Click **Inbox** and click a message.

Drag the message from the Inbox into the **In-Place Archive - Coralie Emond** folder.

Click the **In-Place Archive - Coralie Emond** folder and view the message.

Right-click the message in the **In-Place Archive - Coralie Emond** folder and click **Move**, then click **More**.

In the **Move 1 conversation** dialog box, click **Inbox** and click **Move**.

The message now moves back to Coralie’s Inbox.

####   Task 3: Create a Retention Tag in Exchange Admin Center

1.  Switch back to Heidi Leitner’s account, then click **Admin** and click **Exchange**.

On the left-hand column, click **Compliance management**.

On the right-hand side, click **Retention tags**.

Click the + sign and click **Applied by users to items and folders (personal).**

In new tag applied by users to items and folders (personal), under **Name**, enter **Lucerne Publishing – Archive after three years**.

Under **Retention Action**, click **Move to Archive**.

Under **Retention period**, click **When the item reaches the following age (in days)**, and enter **1095**.

Click **Save**.

####   Task 4: Create a Custom Retention Tag in PowerShell and Add Tags to a Policy

1.  On **LUC-CL1**, press the Windows key, then on the **Start** page, click **Windows Azure Active Directory**.

Click on **Run as administrator**.

Type the following commands, pressing Enter after every line:

Set-ExecutionPolicy unrestricted

Import-Module MSOnline

$O365Cred = Get-Credential

In the **Windows PowerShell Credential** box, in **User name**, enter **hleitner@labXXXXX.o365ready.com** (where XXXXX is your unique O365ready.com number).

In **Password**, enter **Pa$$w0rd**. Click **OK**.

Type the following commands, pressing Enter after every line:

$O365Session = New-PSSession –ConfigurationName Microsoft.Exchange -ConnectionUri https://ps.outlook.com/powershell -Credential $O365Cred -Authentication Basic -AllowRedirection

Import-PSSession $O365Session -AllowClobber

Connect-MsolService –Credential $O365Cred

In the Windows Azure Active Directory Module for Windows PowerShell window, enter the following command and press Enter:

New-RetentionPolicyTag "Lucerne Publishing – Delete Sent Items after 90 Days" -Type SentItems -AgeLimitForRetention 90 -RetentionAction DeleteAndAllowRecovery

In the Windows Azure Active Directory Module for Windows PowerShell window, enter the following command and press Enter:

Get-RetentionPolicy

Note the retention polices currently in place. There should be a **Default MRM** policy and an **ArbitrationMailbox** policy.

Switch back to Internet Explorer running Heidi’s logon.

In the **Exchange admin center**, click **Retention policies**.

In **Retention polices**, click the + sign.

In **New retention policy**, under **Name**, enter **Lucerne Publishing Retention Policy**.

Under **Retention tags**, click the **+** sign.

Click the two policies starting with **Lucerne**, click **Add**, and then click **OK**.

In the **New Retention Policy** page, click b.

Switch to Coralie’s account and click **Outlook**.

Click the cog to the right of Coralie’s name and click **Options**.

Click **Email.**

Click **Retention policies**.

Note that there are none of the Lucerne Publishing retention tags that you defined earlier listed.

Click the **plus (+) sign** and note that the Lucerne Publishing retention tags are also not visible.

Switch back to Heidi’s account and click **Recipients**.

Click **Coralie’s mailbox** and click the **edit** symbol.

In the **Coralie Emond** page, click **Mailbox features**.

Under **Retention policy**, click **Lucerne Publishing Retention Policy**.

Click **Save**.

Switch to the Windows Azure Active Directory prompt.

Enter the following command and press Enter:

Start-ManagedFolderAssistant –identity “Coralie Emond”

Switch back to Coralie’s account on the **Retention policies** page, click the **+** sign. Now you can see the Lucerne Publishing – Archive tag.

In the interface, select the **Lucerne Publishing-Archive after three years** policy and click **Add**, then click **Save**.

####   Task 5: Apply Policies to Folders and Messages

1.  In Coralie’s account, click **Outlook**.

In **Outlook Web Access**, right click the **Inbox** folder and click **Assign policy**.

Note the Archive Policies and Retention Policies that apply to this mailbox.

Switch to Heidi’s Office 365 session, and in Exchange admin center, click **Recipients**.

In Recipients, double-click Coralie Emond.

In Coralie Emond, click Mailbox features.

Under Retention policy, select Lucerne Publishing Retention Policy and click Save.

Switch back to the Windows Azure Active Directory prompt.

Enter the following command and press Enter:

Start-ManagedFolderAssistant –identity “Coralie Emond”

Switch back to Coralie Emond’s account and click **Outlook**.

Click the cog to the right of Coralie’s name and click **Options**.

Click **Email**.

Click **Retention policies**.

Note the retention polices that are listed.

Click **Outlook**, and right-click the **Inbox** folder.

Click **Assign policy**, and under **Archive Policy**, click **Lucerne Publishing – Archive after three years**.

Right-click an email in the **Inbox** folder, and click **Assign policy**.

Under **Archive Policy**, click **Lucerne Publishing – Archive after three years**.

In the message preview window on the right, click the ellipsis (…) button, and then click **Assign policy**.

Note that under ARCHIVE POLICY, the **Lucerne Publishing – Archive after three years** policy is checked.

**Results**: Lucerne Publishing has now enabled personal archive for mailboxes, created custom retention policies, created retention tags, applied retention policy, and modified the default retention policy.

### Exercise 2: Manage Anti-malware and Anti-spam Policies

Scenario

To protect its intellectual property, Lucerne Publishing requires effective anti-spam and anti-malware defenses. Following discussions between Remi, Justin, and Heidi, it was decided to add further anti-spam and anti-malware policies and then apply those policies throughout the organization. Management has requested a demonstration of the effectiveness of these defenses, using test malware and spam messages to verify that spam and messages with a malicious payloads were being diverted properly.

Heidi sets up this demonstration, working with Luc Cartier and Coralie Emond to show how the anti-malware and anti-spam policies work.

The main tasks for this exercise are as follows:

1. Configure a New Malware Policy

2. Create a Test Malware File

3. Send Malware to Recipients

4. Configure an Anti-Spam Policy

5. Configure End-User Spam Notifications and Manage Spam Messages

####   Task 1: Configure a New Malware Policy

1.  Switch to Heidi Leitner’s session on Internet Explorer.

Click **Admin** and then click **Exchange**.

In the left-hand column, click **Protection**.

Under **Malware filter**, click the **+** sign.

In **Name**, type **Lucerne Publishing - High Security**.

In **Malware Detection Response**, select **Delete the entire message**.

Do not select any notifications.

In **Applied to**, under **If**, click **The recipient is**.

In the selection box, click **Heidi Leitner**, and click **Add**.

Click **OK**.

In the **New anti-malware policy** page, click **Save**.

Review the new policy in the malware filter list. Note the priority assigned to the policy.

Switch to the Windows Azure Active Directory Module for Windows PowerShell window.

Type the following command on one line and press Enter:

New-MalwareFilterPolicy -Name “Internal User Policy” -action DeleteAttachmentAndUseDefaultAlertText –EnableInternalSenderNotifications $true -EnableInternalSenderAdminNotifications $true -InternalSenderAdminAddress hleitner@labXXXXX.o365ready.com (where XXXXX is your unique O365ready.com number)

If you are prompted for credentials, in the **Windows PowerShell Credential Required** box, in **User name**, enter **hleitner@labXXXXX.o365ready.com** (where XXXXX is your unique O365ready.com number) and in **Password**, enter **Pa$$w0rd**.

Type the following command on one line and press Enter:

New-MalwareFilterRule -Name "Lucerne Publishing - Medium Security" -MalwareFilterPolicy "Internal User Policy" -RecipientDomainIs LabXXXXX.o365ready.com (where XXXXX is your unique O365ready.com number)

Switch to Heidi’s session in Internet Explorer, and in **Exchange admin center**, under **Malware filter**, click the refresh button.

Double-click **Lucerne Publishing – Medium Security**.

Click **Settings**.

Scroll down and confirm the following settings:

1.  Delete all attachments and use default alert text.

2.  Notify internal senders.

3.  Notify administrator about undelivered messages from internal senders.

4.  Administrator email address is **hleitner@labXXXXX.o365ready.com** (where XXXXX is your unique O365ready.com number).

Click **Applied to**.

Confirm that the recipient domain is **labXXXXX.o365ready.com** (where XXXXX is your unique O365ready.com number).

Click **Cancel**.

####   Task 2: Create a Test Malware File

1.  Click **Start**, type **services**, click **Settings**, and then click **View local services.**

In the **Services** console, scroll down and double-click on **Windows Defender Service**.

Next to **Startup type**, select **Disabled**.

Click **Stop** and then click **OK** to close the **Windows Defender Services Properties (Local Computer)** dialog box. Minimize the Services console.

Click **Start**, type **Note** and click **Notepad**.

In Notepad, copy and paste this exact text:

**X5O!P%@AP[4\\PZX54(P^)7CC)7}$EICAR-STANDARD-ANTIVIRUS-TEST-FILE!$H+H\***

Click **File** and click **Save**.

Save the file on your desktop as **Eicar.txt**. The file size should be exactly 68 bytes.

####   Task 3: Send Malware to Recipients

1.  Switch to Coralie’s session in Internet Explorer.

In **Outlook**, click **New**.

In the **To** box, enter **Luc Cartier** and add a subject.

Click **INSERT** and then click **Attachments or OneDrive files**.

Click **Eicar.txt** and then click **Upload and share with OneDrive/Send as attachment**.

Click **SEND**.

Press the Windows key, and then on the Start page click **Internet Explorer**.

Browse to **outlook.office365.com**.

Log on as **LCartier@labXXXXX.o365ready.com** with a password of **Pa$$w0rd** (where XXXXX is your unique O365ready.com number).

Double-click on the message from Coralie.

Double-click on the attachment and click **Open**. The attachment opens in Notepad on the Desktop.

What does the attachment body now say?

In Heidi’s Internet Explorer session, click **Outlook** and review the messages in her Inbox.

Does Heidi receive an alert message? If not, why not?

In Heidi’s account, click **Admin** and then click **Exchange**.

In the **Exchange admin center**, click **Protection.**

In **Protection**, under **Malware filter**, click **Lucerne Publishing – Medium Security**, click **Edit**, and then click **Settings**.

In **Settings,** under **Malware Detection Response**, click **Delete the entire message**.

Click **Save**.

Switch to Coralie Emond’s session, and in **Outlook**, click **New**.

In the **To** field, enter **LCartier** and add a subject.

Click **INSERT** and then click **Attachments or OneDrive files**.

Attach the **eicar.txt** file from Step 5.

Click **SEND**.

Note the non-deliverable message in Coralie’s account.

In Heidi’s account, click **Outlook**.

Note the non-deliverable message there as well.

Press Start and click **Internet** **Explorer**.

Note that Luc does not receive any message.

Switch back to the **Services** console.

In the Services console, scroll down and double-click on **Windows Defender Service**.

Next to **Startup type**, select **Automatic** and click **Apply**.

Click **Start** and then click **OK** to close the **Windows Defender Services Properties (Local Computer)** dialog box. Close the Services console.

Note that the eicar.txt file may disappear from the desktop after a few seconds if Windows Defender detects this file immediately. However, in some cases the file will remain on the desktop until a full scan is done on the machine.

####   Task 4: Configure an Anti-Spam Policy

1.  In Internet Explorer, logged on as **Heidi Leitner**, click **Admin** and then click **Exchange**.

On the left-hand side, click **Protection** and then click **Content filter**.

Click the + sign to add a new policy.

In **Name,** enter **Lucerne Publishing Anti-Spam Filter**.

Under **Actions**, under **Spam**, select **Prepend subject line with text**.

Under **High-confidence spam**, select **Quarantine message**.

Under **Prepend subject line with this text**, enter **SPAM, SPAM, SPAM, SPAM, SPAM:**.

Under **International spam**, click **Filter email messages written in the following languages**.

Click the + sign.

Scroll down the list, click **Latin,** click **Add**, and then click **OK**.

Click **Filter email messages sent from the following countries or regions**.

Click the + sign.

Scroll down the list, click **South Georgia and the South Sandwich Islands**, click **Add** and then click **OK**.

Under **Advanced options**, under **Increase Spam Score**, select **On** for the following settings:

1.  Image links to remote sites

2.  Numeric IP address in URL

3.  URL redirect to other port

Under **Mark as Spam**, select **On** for the following settings:

1.  Empty messages

2.  Apply sensitive word list

Under **Applied To**, under **If**, click **The recipient domain is**, select **labXXXXX.o365ready.com**, (where XXXXX is your unique O365ready.com number) and click **Add** then click **OK**.

Click **Save**.

Review the new policy in the **Exchange admin center**.

Switch to your external email client and create a new message.

In the **To** field, enter **hleitner@labXXXXX.o365ready.com** (where XXXXX is your unique O365ready.com number).

Enter a subject of **Offers**.

In the body of the message, enter **http://131.107.30.10/offers**.

Click **Send**.

Switch to Heidi Leitner’s account and click **Outlook**.

Double-click the new message. Note that it may appear in the Inbox or the Junk Mail folder.

You should now see the item with the IP address URL appended with the phrase **SPAM, SPAM, SPAM, SPAM, SPAM**.

In your external email client, navigate to the **Junk Mail** folder.

Find an obvious junk message and click **Forward**.

In the **To** field, enter **hleitner@labXXXXX.o365ready.com** (where XXXXX is your unique O365ready.com number) and click **Send**.

Switch to Heidi Leitner’s account.

Check the **Junk Mail** folder in her mailbox.

You should now see the forwarded junk mail item.

From your external email account, create a new message to **hleitner@labXXXXX.o365ready.com** (where XXXXX is your unique O365ready.com number) with the subject **More Spam:**

In the body of the message, add the following plain text:

**XJS\*C4JDBQADN1.NSBN3\*2IDNEN\*GTUBE-STANDARD-ANTI-UBE-TEST-EMAIL\*C.34X**

Send the message.

Check Heidi’s Outlook account to see if the **More Spam**: message arrives. Note that the message may either be in the Inbox or the Junk Mail folders.

####   Task 5: Configure End-User Spam Notifications and Manage Spam Messages

1.  In Internet Explorer, logged on as **Heidi Leitner**, click **Admin** and then click **Exchange**.

On the left-hand side, click **Protection** and then click **Content filter**.

Click **Lucerne Publishing Anti-Spam Filter**.

On the right-hand side, scroll down and then click **Configure end-user spam notifications**.

Click **Enable end-user spam notifications**.

Click **Save**.

In the **Exchange admin center**, click **Quarantine**.

Double-click one of the quarantined messages.

Click **Release to**. Do NOT report as a false positive.

In the **Release message** window, click **Release message to specified recipients**, select **hleitner@labXXXXX.o365ready.com** (where XXXXX is your unique O365ready.com number), click **Add** and then click **Release**.

Click **Close**.

In Internet Explorer, click **Outlook**, and in Heidi Leitner’s mailbox, check the **Inbox** and **Junk Mail** folders for the message.

**Results**: Lucerne Publishing has created and applied anti-spam and anti-malware polices that are protecting the organization.

### Exercise 3: Configure Additional Email Addresses for Users

Scenario

Because Lucerne Publishing has several DNS domains and subdomains registered with Office 365, and users may have email accounts associated with those domains, it is necessary to create additional email addresses for specific users and ensure that each user’s email accounts are associated with the user’s mailbox. Heidi is working with Coralie’s account to ensure that these records are added correctly, both by using EAC and PowerShell.

The main tasks for this exercise are as follows:

1. Create an Additional Email Address

2. Configure the DNS Information for the New Domain

3. Create Additional Proxy Email Addresses for Multiple Users

####   Task 1: Create an Additional Email Address

1.  Switch to your **private email account** and send a message to **coralieemond@content.labXXXXX.o365ready.com** (where XXXXX is your unique O365ready.com number).

What happens to the message?

On Heidi Leitner’s account, click **Admin** and then click **Exchange**.

In **Recipients,** double-click **Coralie Emond**.

Click **Email address**.

Under **Email address**, click the + sign.

In **New email address**, select **SMTP** and enter **coralieemond@content.labXXXXX.o365ready.com** (where XXXXX is your unique O365ready.com number).

Click **OK**.

Click **Save**.

Switch to your **private email account** and send a message to **coralieemond@content.labXXXXX.o365ready.com** (where XXXXX is your unique O365ready.com number).

What happens to the message this time?

####   Task 2: Configure the DNS Information for the New Domain

1.  In **Heidi Leitner’s** account, click **Admin** and click **Office 365**.

Click **Domains** and next to **content.labXXXXX.0365ready.com** (where XXXXX is your unique O365ready.com number), click **Complete setup**.

Click **Next**.

Click **Next**.

In **How do you want to use content.labXXXXX.o365ready.com with office 365?** (where XXXXX is your unique O365ready.com number), select **Outlook for email, calendar, and contacts**, and then click **Next**.

Remain on the **Add these DNS records for content.labXXXXX.o365ready.com at your DNS hosting provider** page (where XXXXX is your unique O365ready.com number).

In **E:\\RDP\_files**, double-click **LUC-DC1.rdp**.

Log on as **LUCERNE\\LucAdmin** with a password of **Pa$$w0rd**.

In **Server Manager**, click **Tools,** and then click **DNS**.

In the DNS console, expand **Forward Lookup Zones**, right-click **labXXXXX.o365ready.com** (where XXXXX is your unique O365ready.com number) and click **New Domain**.

In the **New DNS Domain** dialog box, enter **content**, and click **OK**.

Right-click content and click **New Mail Exchanger (MX).**

In the **Mail Exchanger** **(MX)** tab, check that **Host or child domain** is blank and that **Fully qualified domain name** is **content.labXXXXX.o365ready.com** (where XXXXX is your unique O365ready.com number).

In **Fully qualified domain name (FQDN) of mail server**, enter the POINTS TO ADDRESS value from the **DNS records** page in Office 365, in the form **content-labXXXXX-o365ready-com.mail.protection.outlook.com** (where XXXXX is your unique O365ready.com number), and then click **OK**.

Right-click **Content** and point to **New Alias (CNAME)**.

In **Alias name**, type **autodiscover**.

In **Fully qualified domain name (FQDN) for target host**, type **autodiscover.outlook.com**, and click **OK**.

Right-click **Content** and point to **New Alias (CNAME)**.

In **Alias name**, type **msoid.**

In **Fully qualified domain name (FQDN) for target host**, type **clientconfig.microsoftonline-p.net**, and click **OK**.

Right-click **Content** and click **Other New Record**.

In the **Resource Record Type** dialog box, scroll down and select **Text (TXT)**, then click **Create Record**.

In the **Text Field**, enter the **TXT VALUE** from the **DNS records** page in Office 365, then click **OK**.

In the **Resource Record Type** dialog box, click **Done**.

On the **Add the following DNS records for content.labXXXXX.o365ready.com** page (where XXXXX is your unique O365ready.com number), click **Okay, I’ve added the records**.

On the **Your records are correct and content.labXXXXX.o365ready.com is all set up** page, click **Finish**.

Switch to your **private email account** and send a message to **coralieemond@content.labXXXXX.o365ready.com** (where XXXXX is your unique O365ready.com number).

What happens to the message this time?

####   Task 3: Create Additional Proxy Email Addresses for Multiple Users

1.  Switch to Windows Azure Active Directory Module for Windows PowerShell.

If the session has timed out, log on again as **hleitner@labXXXXX.o365ready.com** (where XXXXX is your unique O365ready.com number) with a password of **Pa$$w0rd**.

Enter the following three commands and press Enter after each line:

$users = Get-Mailbox

foreach ($a in $users) {$a.emailaddresses.Add("smtp:$($a.alias)@content.labXXXXX.o365ready.com")}

$users | %{Set-Mailbox $\_.Identity -EmailAddresses $\_.EmailAddresses}

Use your external email account to send a message to **cemond@content.labXXXXX.o365ready.com** (where XXXXX is your unique O365ready.com number).

Switch to Internet Explorer for Coralie’s account.

Check that the message is received.

At the top right-hand corner, click **Coralie Emond** and click **Sign out**.

Close the Internet Explorer window.

**Results**: Lucerne Publishing has configured secondary email addresses for additional domains in Office 365.

### Exercise 4: Create and Manage External Contacts, Resources, and Groups

Scenario

Because Lucerne Publishing engages many associates for content creation, it is important the company can stay in contact with and position these individuals within the company management structure. In addition, some of these users need to be given access to resources within Office 365 while maintaining email addresses outside the organization. As a result, Lucerne Publishing needs to use both mail contacts and mail users within Office 365 to manage these accounts.

The company also wants to set up shared mailboxes for departments to use and resource mailboxes to enable management of resources such as conference rooms, projectors, and other locations and pieces of equipment. Again, Heidi has been tasked to set up these resources.

The main tasks for this exercise are as follows:

1. Create Mail User Accounts

2. Manage Mail Users and Contacts

3. Create a Shared Mailbox and Grant Send As Permissions

4. Send Mail from a Shared Mailbox

5. Connect to a Shared Mailbox

6. Create and Manage Resource Mailboxes

####   Task 1: Create Mail User Accounts

1.  Logged on as **Heidi Leitner**, click **Admin** and then click **Exchange**.

In the **Exchange admin center**, in **Recipients**, click **Contacts**.

In **Contacts**, click the + sign and click **mail contact**.

In **New mail contact**, enter the following information:

1.  First name: **Alain**

Last name: **Richer**

Display name: **Alain Richer (External)**

Alias: **Aricher**

External email address: **aricher@contoso.com**

Click **Save**.

Note that the information on the right-hand pane may not display correctly.

Click the refresh button.

Confirm that the information you entered has been added.

Double-click on Alain Richer’s account.

Click **MailTip**.

In the warning message box, enter **This is an external email address.**

Click **Save**.

Under **Recipients**, click the + sign and click **Mail user**.

Complete the fields with your information.

In **Alias**, enter your first initial and last name.

In **External email address**, enter your external email address.

In **User ID**, enter the same information for your alias.

Ensure that **labXXXXX.o365ready.com** (where XXXXX is your unique O365ready.com number) is selected as the domain.

In the **New password** and **Confirm password** fields, enter **Pa$$w0rd**.

Click **Save**.

Click the refresh button until the new account appears.

####   Task 2: Manage Mail Users and Contacts

1.  Switch to Windows Azure Active Directory Module for Windows PowerShell.

At the prompt, type the following on one line and then press Enter:

New-DistributionGroup -Name "External Users" -Alias ExternalUsers -Members *YourAlias*, aricher -PrimarySmtpAddress externalusers@labXXXXX.o365ready.com -Type Distribution

Switch to Internet Explorer and logged on as **Heidi Leitner**, under **Recipients**, click **Groups**.

If the group does not appear, click the refresh button.

Double-click **External Users**.

In the **General** tab, confirm that the email address is **externalusers@labXXXXX.o365ready.com** (where XXXXX is your unique O365ready.com number).

Click Membership.

Confirm that your account and Alain Richer’s are members of this group.

Click **Cancel**.

Switch back to Heidi’s account and click **Outlook**.

Click **New**, and in the **To** field, enter **aricher**.

Note that the mail account resolves to Alain Richer.

Click **Alain** **Richer**. Note the external email account under **Send mail**.

Enter a subject and some text in the body.

Note the MailTip reminding you that Alain is external to the organization.

Click **DISCARD** and click **DISCARD** **in discard MESSAGE**.

Click **New**.

In the **To** box, enter **External users**.

Add a subject and some text to the body of the message.

Click **SEND**.

Note that the mailtip does not appear.

Check your **external email account** for the received message.

####   Task 3: Create a Shared Mailbox and Grant Send As Permissions

1.  In **Heidi Leitner’s** account, click **Admin** and then click **Exchange**.

Click **Recipients**.

In **Recipients**, click **Shared**.

Click the + sign.

In the **New shared** mailbox, in **Display name**, enter **Marketing Department**.

In **Email**, enter **Marketing**, and after the @ sign, select **labXXXXX.o365ready.com** (where XXXXX is your unique O365ready.com number).

Under **Users**, click the + sign, then select **Coralie Emond**.

Click **Add**, then click **OK**.

Click **Save**.

Switch to Windows Azure Active Directory Module for Windows PowerShell.

At the prompt, type the following on one line and then press Enter:

Add-RecipientPermission marketing@labXXXXX.o365ready.com -AccessRights SendAs -Trustee lmartin@labXXXXX.o365ready.com

At the **Confirm** message, press Enter.

At the prompt, type the following on one line and then press Enter:

Get-RecipientPermission -Identity marketing@labXXXXX.o365ready.com

You should have **SendAs** entries for **NT AUTHORITY\\SELF**, **Cemond**, and **LMartin**.

####   Task 4: Send Mail from a Shared Mailbox

1.  On the Task Bar, right-click **Internet** **Explorer** and click **InPrivate Browsing**.

Browse to **login.microsoftonline.com**.

Log on as **lmartin@labXXXXX.o365ready.com** (where XXXXX is your unique O365ready.com number) with a password of **Pa$$w0rd**.

Click **Outlook**.

In **Language**, click ensure **English (United States)** is selected and under **Time zone**, select **(UTC + 01:00) Amsterdam etc**, then click **Save**.

Click **New**.

In the **New mail** pane, click the **New window** icon on the right.

Click the ellipsis (…) icon and click **Show from**.

In the **From** field, delete **lmartin@labXXXXX.o365ready.com**, (where XXXXX is your unique O365ready.com number), and enter **Marketing**.

In the **To** field, enter your external email account.

Give the email a subject and some body text, then click **SEND**.

When you receive the message on your external email, check the reply-to address and then reply to the mail.

####   Task 5: Connect to a Shared Mailbox

1.  Switch to Heidi’s logon, click **Admin** and then click **Exchange**.

In the **Exchange admin center**, under **Recipients**, click **Shared**.

Double-click the **Marketing Department** group.

In **Marketing Department**, click **Mailbox delegation**.

Under **Full Access**, click the + sign.

Click **Liane Martin**, click **Add**, then click **OK**.

Click **Save**.

Switch back to Liane’s session and click **Outlook**.

At the top right-hand corner of the page, click **Liane Martin**, and click **Open** **another** **mailbox**.

In **Open another mailbox**, enter **Marketing**, and click **Open**.

Under **Language**, select **English (United States)** and in **Time zone**, select **Amsterdam**.

Click **Save**.

Note the message you replied to in Step 12 of the previous task in the Inbox.

Click **New** and send a new email message to **Heidi Leitner**.

Switch to Heidi Leitner’s account and see the message appear in her Inbox. Note that it comes from Marketing.

Switch back to Liane’s session, click **Liane Martin**, and click **Sign out**. Close the Internet Explorer window.

####   Task 6: Create and Manage Resource Mailboxes

1.  In Heidi Leitner’s account, click **Admin** and click **Exchange**.

In Recipients, click Resources.

Click the + sign and click **Room mailbox**.

Enter the following information:

1.  Room name: **Main Conference Room**

2.  Email address: **MainConferenceRoom@labXXXXX.o365ready.com** (where XXXXX is your unique O365ready.com number)

3.  Location: **2<sup>nd</sup> Floor**

4.  Capacity: **25**

Click **Save**.

Switch to Windows Azure Active Directory Module for Windows PowerShell.

Type the following command on one line and press Enter:

new-mailbox -PrimarySmtpAddress confroomprojector@labXXXXX.o365ready.com -alias confroomprojector -Name "Main Conference Room Projector" -equipment

Switch to **Heidi Leitner’s** account.

In **Resources**, click the **Refresh** button.

Double-click **Main Conference Room Projector**.

Click **Booking options** and in the **If you want the meeting organizer to receive a reply, enter the text below** box, type **Ensure that you have a spare bulb for the projector**.

Click **Save**.

In Heidi Leitner’s Outlook account, click **Calendar**.

Click **New** **event**.

In **Event**, enter **Office 365 Meeting**.

Next to **Location**, click **Add room**.

Select **Main Conference Room**.

In **Attendees**, type **Main Conference Room Projector**. Also type **Elisabeth Labrecque** and **Luc** **Cartier**.

Enter **08:00** in the **Start time** and set the **Date** to **tomorrow**. Set the **Duration** to **1 hour**.

Click **SEND**.

On the Task Bar, right-click Internet Explorer, click **Start InPrivate Browsing** and browse to **login.microsoftonline.com**.

Log on as **kgruber@labXXXXX.o365ready.com** (where XXXXX is your unique O365ready.com number) with a password of **Pa$$w0rd**.

Under **Language**, select **English (United States)** and in **Time zone**, select **Amsterdam**.

Click **Calendar** and click **New** **event**.

In **Event,** enter **Marketing GroupThink**.

Next to **Location**, click **Add room**.

Select **Main Conference Room**.

In **Attendees**, type **Main Conference Room Projector, Coralie Emond and Justin Muller**.

Enter **08:30** in the **Start time** and set the **Date** to **tomorrow**. Set the **Duration** to **1 hour**.

Click **SEND**.

Click **Outlook**, and then look in Karen Gruber’s Inbox. What message has appeared?

**Results**: Lucerne Publishing has created external mail contacts and mail users and set up shared and resource mailboxes.
