Module 12

Lab: Monitoring Office 365 (Optional)
-------------------------------------

Scenario

The deployment of Office 365 at Lucerne Publishing is now complete, and single sign-on is federating the Lucerne Publishing domain with Office 365. As the team enters the final phase of this project, Heidi recruits Elizabeth to assist her in setting up a suitable monitoring environment to keep track of the status of Office 365 and ensure that the helpdesk and IT management can respond to any reported issues.

Objectives

By the end of this lab, you should be able to:

Identify and fix networking issues that affect Office 365 access.

Track message delivery in Exchange Online.

Monitor service health and analyze reports.

Lab Setup

Estimated Time: 30 minutes

Virtual machine: 20346C-LUC-CL1

Username: **Student1**

Password: **Pa$$w0rd**

In all tasks, where you see references to lucernepublishingXXXX.onmicrosoft.com, replace the XXXX with the unique Lucerne Publishing number that you were assigned when you set up your Office 365 account in Module 1, Lab 1B, Exercise 2, Task 3, Step 5.

Where you see references to labXXXXX.o365ready.com, replace the XXXXX with the unique O365ready.com number you were assigned when you registered your IP address at www.o365ready.com in Module 2, Lab 2B, Exercise 1, Task 2, Step 6.

### Exercise 1: Track Message Delivery

Scenario

Heidi is informed that there have been problems with non-delivery of messages to some key customers. Justin has asked her to identify what the problems are and find out why delivery is not happening to those addresses.

The main tasks for this exercise are as follows:

1. Send Mail to a Non-Existent Domain

2. Track Mail Delivery

3. Send Mail to a Non-Existent User

4. Track Mail Delivery

5. Analyze Mail Flow

####   Task 1: Send Mail to a Non-Existent Domain

1.  On **LUC-CL1**, on the Taskbar, click **Internet Explorer**.

Browse to **http://mail.office365.com/** and log on as **hleitner@labXXXXX.o365ready.com** (where XXXXX is your unique O365ready.com number), then press TAB.

In the **Sign In** page, enter a user name of **hleitner@labXXXXX.o365ready.com** (where XXXXX is your unique O365ready.com number) and a Password of **Pa$$w0rd**, then click **Sign In**.

Click **Outlook** and click **new mail**.

In the **To** field, enter **user@alt.none**.

Enter a subject and some body text.

Click **SEND**.

####   Task 2: Track Mail Delivery

1.  Wait for the delivery failure message to appear.

Note the reason for the failure **(NonExistentDomain)**.

Select the body text of the message from the phrase “**Generating server**” down to **X-OriginatorOrg: labXXXXX.o365ready.com** and press Ctrl+C to copy it to the clipboard.

On Internet Explorer, press **Ctrl+T** to create a new tab.

In the new tab, browse to testconnectivity.microsoft.com.

In the **Microsoft Remote Connectivity Analyzer** page, click the **Message Analyzer** tab.

Under **Message Header Analyzer**, paste in the message and click **Analyze headers**.

Note the diagnostic information and the time taken for the message to be rejected (typically around seven seconds).

Click **Clear** to reset the Message Header Analyzer.

####   Task 3: Send Mail to a Non-Existent User

1.  In Internet Explorer, click on **Heidi Leitner's** tab.

Click **New mail**, and in the **To** field, enter **difflop4890@outlook.com**.

Enter a subject and some body text.

Click **SEND**.

####   Task 4: Track Mail Delivery

1.  Wait for the delivery failure message to appear.

Note the reason for the failure: **550 Requested action not taken: mailbox unavailable**.

Select the body text of the message from the phrase "**Generating server**" down to **X-OriginatorOrg: labXXXXX.o365ready.com** and press **Ctrl+C** to copy it to the clipboard.

In Internet Explorer, switch to the **Microsoft Remote Connectivity Analyzer** tab.

In the **Microsoft Remote Connectivity Analyzer** page, ensure that you are on the **Message Analyzer** tab.

Under **Message Header Analyzer**, paste in the message and click **Analyze headers**.

Note the diagnostic information and the time taken for the message to be rejected (typically around zero seconds).

Press **Ctrl-F4** to close the Message Header Analyzer tab.

####   Task 5: Analyze Mail Flow

1.  In **Heidi Leitner's** tab, click the **Apps** menu, click **Admin**, and then click **Exchange**.

Click **Mail flow**.

In **Mail flow**, click **Message trace**.

In **Message trace**, next to **Sender**, click **Add sender**.

In the **Select Members** dialog box, click **Heidi Leitner**, and click **add**, then click **OK**.

Under **Date range**, select **Past 24 hours**.

Under **Delivery status**, select **Failed**, then click **Search**. Note the two messages.

Double-click each message to view the sender, recipient, message size, ID and IP address information.

Note the differences between the message processing events (RECEIVE, SUBMIT, RECEIVE, FAIL for the non-existent domain, RECEIVE, RECEIVE, SUBMIT, FAIL for the non-existent user).

Close the Message Trace window.

**Results**: Lucerne Publishing can identify reasons for non-delivery of email by use of mail header analysis.

### Exercise 2: Monitor Service Health and Analyze Reports

Scenario

Justin has identified the management reports that he needs to provide to Remi Desforges and Jesse Wagner. Of particular interest to Remi are the number of malware and spam items that are reaching the organization. Again, Justin turns to Heidi to lead this project. She begins by familiarizing herself with the reporting tools in Office 365. Her next task is to produce reports on the numbers of messages that Exchange Online Protection is intercepting.

The main tasks for this exercise are as follows:

1. View Office 365 Service Health

2. View Reports in the Office 365 Admin Center

3. Install Mail Protection Reports for Office 365

4. Use Mail Protection Reports for Office 365

####   Task 1: View Office 365 Service Health

1.  In the **Office 365 admin center** logged on as **Heidi Leitner**, click the **Apps** menu, click **Admin**, and then click **Office 365**.

In the **Office 365 admin center Dashboard** page, in the left menu, click **Service health**.

Click **View details and history**.

At the top-right of the table, click **View history for past 30 days**.

Click any entry in the **INCIDENT ID** column to see further details.

Click the back arrow.

On the **Service health** page, click **Planned Maintenance**.

Note any planned maintenance events (there may be none).

####   Task 2: View Reports in the Office 365 Admin Center

1.  In the **Office 365 admin center**, on the left-hand side, click **Reports**.

In the **Reports** page, in the **Mail** section, click **Mailbox usage**.

Click the back arrow.

In the **Reports** page, in the **Protection** section, click **Sent and received mail**.

Click **View table**.

Close the table view.

Close the open window.

In the **Reports** page, in the **Protection** section, click **Malware detections**.

Close the open window.

In the **Reports** page, in the **Protection** section, click **Spam detections**.

Close the open window.

####   Task 3: Install Mail Protection Reports for Office 365

1.  In the **Office 365 admin center**, on the **Reports Overview** page, under **Download your reports**, click **Mail protection reports (Excel)**.

On the **Microsoft Download Center** page, click **Download**.

On the **Choose the download you want** page, select the check box for **MailProtectionReport\_v2\_en32.msi**, and then click **Next**.

In the Internet Explorer notification bar, click **Allow once**.

In the Internet Explorer notification bar, click **Run**.

In the **Mail Protection Reports for Office 365 Setup** dialog box, on the **Welcome to the Mail Protection Reports for Office 365 Setup Wizard** page, click **Next**.

On the **End-User License Agreement** page, select the **I accept the terms in the License Agreement** check box, and click **Next.**

On the **Service Selection** page, click **Next**.

On the **Prerequisites Required** page, click **Next**.

On the **Ready to install Mail Protection Reports for Office 365** page, click **Install**.

In the **User Account Control** dialog box, click **Yes**.

On the **Completed the Mail Protection Reports for Office 365 Setup Wizard** page, click **Finish**.

####   Task 4: Use Mail Protection Reports for Office 365

1.  Minimize Internet Explorer.

On the desktop, double-click **Mail Protection Reports for Office 365**.

If you get an error message, click **OK**, and double-click **Mail Protection Reports for Office 365** again.

In the **Microsoft Office Customization Installer** dialog box, click **Install**.

If you get a **First things first** page, click **Accept**.

In the **Email traffic** page, click **Query**.

In the **Sign into Office 365** page, enter **hleitner@labXXXXX.o365ready.com** (where XXXXX is your unique O365ready.com number) and a password of **Pa$$w0rd**, then click **Login**.

In the **Query** dialog box, click **OK**.

In the **Progress** dialog box, click **OK**.

In **Microsoft Excel**, note the data shown on the **Traffic** worksheet.

Click the **Spam** worksheet and note the detail on Spam traffic.

Click the **Malware** worksheet and note the detail on Malware traffic.

**Results**: Lucerne Publishing has used the reporting functions in Office 365 to monitor service health and identify levels of malware and spam in email traffic.
