Module 8

Lab: Configuring SharePoint Online
----------------------------------

Scenario

With the deployment of Office 365 now in full swing and the excitement of the Exchange Online cutover migration behind them, the management team at Lucerne Publishing is looking to implement the other services in the Office 365 portfolio. The company definitely wants to adopt some of the features in SharePoint Online, including social media capabilities such as Yammer. Again, Heidi is heading up this effort to configure site collections, Yammer, and OneDrive for Business. She begins by creating site collections, both through the SharePoint Online user interface and PowerShell.

Objectives

To provide the students with the experience of planning, setting up, and configuring SharePoint Online.

Lab Setup

Estimated Time: 70 minutes

Virtual machine: 20346C-LUC-CL1

Username: **Student1**

Password: **Pa$$w0rd**

Where you see references in the steps to lucernepublishingXXXX.onmicrosoft.com, you should replace XXXX with the unique Lucerne Publishing number that you are assigned when you set up your Office 365 accounts in Module 1, Lab 1B, Exercise 2, Task 3, Step 5.

Where you see references to labXXXXX.o365ready.com, you should replace XXXXX with the unique O365ready.com number you are assigned when you registered your IP address at www.o365ready.com in Module 2, Lab 2B, Exercise 1, Task 2, Step 6.

### Exercise 1: Create SharePoint Site Collections

Scenario

After the excitement of the successful Exchange Online cutover migration, Heidi is settling down to review the deployment of SharePoint Online. The company does not plan to replace its existing on-premises document management environment, but wants to use SharePoint Online to connect more easily with associates, partners, and suppliers. Consequently, Heidi starts off by creating site collections, both with SharePoint admin center and with PowerShell. She works with Rick Torres to validate access rights to these sites.

The main tasks for this exercise are as follows:

1. Create Site Collections in the SharePoint Online Admin Center

2. Create a Site Collection with PowerShell

3. Verify and Use Site Collections

4. Upload Documents to a Site Collection

####   Task 1: Create Site Collections in the SharePoint Online Admin Center

1.  On your host computer, ensure you are logged into the **20346C-LUC-CL1** virtual machine as **Student1** with a password of **Pa$$word**.

In **LUC-CL1**, click **Desktop**, in the Task bar, click Internet Explorer and browse to **https://login.microsoftonline.com**.

Sign in as **hleitner@labXXXXX.o365ready.com** (where XXXXX is your unique O365ready.com number) with a password of **Pa$$w0rd**.

In the **Office 365 Admin** console, click **Admin**, then click **SharePoint**.

On the left-hand side, click **Site collections**.

In the ribbon, in the **Contribute** section, click **New**, and then **Private Site Collection**.

In the **Title** box, type **Publishing Sales**.

In **Web Site Address** box, leave the first address as **https://lucernepublishingXXXX.sharepoint.com**, where XXXX is your unique Lucerne Publishing number).

Leave the second box as **/sites/**.

In the third box, type in **PubSales**.

Under **Select a template**, select **Team Site**.

In the **Administrator** box, type **Justin**, and then click the **Check names** button.

In the **Storage Quota** box, type **500**.

Click **OK**.

Wait for the site collection to be created, which may take about 10 minutes.

In the ribbon, in the **Contribute** section, click **New**, and then **Private Site Collection**.

In the **Title** box, type **External User Share**.

In the final **Web Site Address** box, type **ExtShare**.

Under **Select a template**, select the **Enterprise** tab, then select **Document Center**.

In the **Administrator** box, type **Justin**, and then click the **Check names** button.

In the **Storage Quota** box, type **1000**.

Click **OK**.

Wait for the site collection to be created, which may take about 10 minutes.

In the top-right corner, click **Heidi Leitner**, then **Sign Out**.

Close Internet Explorer.

####   Task 2: Create a Site Collection with PowerShell

1.  The **SharePoint Online Management Shell** is a tool that contains a Windows PowerShell Module to manage your SharePoint Online subscription in Office 365.
    To install the SharePoint Online Management Shell, you must first download it from the **Microsoft Download Center**. To do so, open a new Internet Explorer tab and browse to **http://www.microsoft.com/en-us/download/details.aspx?id=35588**.

On the **SharePoint Online Management Shell** download page, in the **Select Language** drop-down box, select your appropriate language, and then click **Download**.

On the **Choose the download you want** page, select the check box for the **64 bit version;** the file name is **sharepointonlinemanagementshell\_3716-1200\_x64\_en-us.msi**. Click **Next**.

If a message about pop-ups appears, click **Allow once**.

In the Internet Explorer dialog box asking whether you want to run or save the file, click **Run**.

In the **SharePoint Online Management Shell Setup** page, select the **I accept the terms in the License Agreement** checkbox, and click **Install**.

If a **User Account Control** dialog box appears, click **Yes**.

When the installation completes, click **Finish**.

Click **Start**, type **sharep**, right-click **SharePoint Online Management Shell** and then click **Run as administrator**.

In the **User Account Control** dialog box, click **Yes**.

At the prompt, type the following command and press Enter (where XXXX is your unique Lucerne Publishing number and XXXXX is your unique O365ready.com number):

Connect-SPOService –Url https://lucernepublishingXXXX-admin.sharepoint.com –credential hleitner@labXXXXX.o365ready.com

In the **Enter your credentials** dialog box, in the **Password** box, type **Pa$$w0rd**.

Click **OK**.

At the prompt, type the following command and press Enter (where XXXX is your unique Lucerne Publishing number and XXXXX is your unique O365ready.com number):

New-SPOSite -Url https://lucernepublishingXXXX.sharepoint.com/sites/AcctsProj -Owner jmuller@labXXXXX.o365ready.com -StorageQuota 500 -NoWait -Template PROJECTSITE\#0 –Title “Accounts Project”

At the prompt, type the following command and press Enter:

Exit

####   Task 3: Verify and Use Site Collections

1.  In **LUC-CL1**, on the Desktop, right-click **Internet** **Explorer** on the Task Bar and click **Start InPrivate Browsing**.

Browse to **https://login.microsoftonline.com**.

Sign in as **rtorres@labXXXXX.o365ready.com**, (where XXXXX is your unique O365ready.com number) and a password of **Pa$$w0rd**.

In the same **InPrivate session** of Internet Explorer, press Ctrl+T to open a new tab and browse to **https://lucernepublishing*XXXX*.sharepoint.com/sites/PubSales**, (where XXXX is your unique Lucerne Publishing number).

Note the **You need permission to access this site** message, and that you need to send an access request for permission to view the site.

Click **Start**, then on the **Start** page, click **Internet** **Explorer** to start a modern browser session.

Navigate to **https://login.microsoftonline.com**.

Sign in as **jmuller@labXXXXX.o365ready.com** (where XXXXX is your unique O365ready.com number), with a password of **Pa$$w0rd**.

If prompted for your **Language,** click **English (United States)** and select **(UTC) Coordinated Universal Time** as the time zone, then click **Save**.

In the **modern browser**, press **Ctrl+T** to open a new tab and browse to **https://lucernepublishing*XXXX*.sharepoint.com/sites/PubSales**, (where XXXX is your unique Lucerne Publishing number).

In the top-right corner, click the **Settings** icon (the cog), and then click **Site settings**.

Under **User and Permissions**, click **Site permissions**.

Click **Publishing Sales Members**.

Click **New**, then click **Add Users**.

In the text box at the top, type **rick** and then click **Rick Torres**.

Click **Share**.

In the **modern browser** tab, browse to **https://lucernepublishing*XXXX*.sharepoint.com/sites/ExtShare**, (where XXXX is your unique Lucerne Publishing number).

In the top-right corner, click the **Settings** icon (the cog), and then click **Site settings**.

Under **User and Permissions**, click **Site permissions**.

Click **External User Share Owners**.

Click **New**, then click **Add Users**.

In the text box at the top, type **elisabeth** and then click **Elisabeth Labrecque**.

Click **Share**.

Press **Ctrl-F4** to close this tab only.

Press the Windows key and click **Desktop**.

Switch to Rick Torres’ Office 365 logon.

In Internet Explorer, open a new tab and browse to **https://lucernepublishing*XXXX*.sharepoint.com/sites/PubSales**, (where XXXX is your unique Lucerne Publishing number).

Verify that you can access the site.

Close the current tab.

In the Task Bar, right-click the **Internet** **Explorer** icon and click **Internet Explorer**.

In the desktop session, browse to **https://login.microsoftonline.com**.

Sign in as **elabrecque@labXXXXX.o365ready.com** (where XXXXX is your unique O365ready.com number), with a password of **Pa$$w0rd**.

Press **Ctrl-T** to open a new tab and browse to **https://lucernepublishing*XXXX*.sharepoint.com/sites/ExtShare**, (where XXXX is your unique Lucerne Publishing number).

Verify that you can access the site.

####   Task 4: Upload Documents to a Site Collection

1.  Click **Upload a Document**.

Click **Browse**.

Navigate to **E:\\Labfiles\\Lab08** and select the first of these documents:

> **Company Profile.docx**
>
> **Sales Fact Sheet.docx**
>
> **Sales Proposal.docx**

Click **Open**.

Click **OK**.

In the **Documents** dialog box, click **Check In**.

Repeat steps 1 to 6 for the remaining documents in the list above.

Refresh the **External User Share** page.

In the left navigation click **Documents**.

Verify that there are three documents listed.

In the top-right corner, click **Elisabeth Labrecque**, then **Sign Out**.

Close the desktop instance of Internet Explorer.

**Results**: Lucerne Publishing has created site collections and configured external access.

### Exercise 2: Configure External User Sharing

Scenario

Because partners and associates need to access some of the Lucerne Publishing sites, Heidi must configure external access to the site collections so that associates and partners can connect. She uses her personal external email address to test access rights and connectivity to the share.

The main tasks for this exercise are as follows:

1. Configure a Site Collection for External User Sharing

2. Verify External User Sharing

####   Task 1: Configure a Site Collection for External User Sharing

1.  Press the Windows key and in the Start page, click **Internet** **Explorer**.

If you are not logged in as **Heidi Leitner**, sign out and sign in as **hleitner@labXXXXX.o365ready.com** (where XXXXX is your unique O365ready.com number) with a password of **Pa$$w0rd**

In the **Office 365 Admin** console, click **Admin**, and then click **SharePoint**.

On the left-hand side, click **Site Collections**.

Select the check box for the **https://lucernepublishingXXXX.sharepoint.com/sites/ExtShare** site collection, (where XXX is your unique Lucerne Publishing number).

In the ribbon, in the **Manage** section, click **Sharing**.

In the **Sharing** dialog box, click **Allow both external users who accept sharing invitations and anonymous guest links**.

Click **Save**.

Wait for the operation to complete, which may take about 10 minutes.

Click on Heidi Leitner’s profile picture icon in the top right screen and then **Sign-Out**.

In Internet Explorer, press **Ctrl+T** to open a new tab and browse to **https://lucernepublishingXXXX.sharepoint.com/sites/ExtShare**, (where XXX is your unique Lucerne Publishing number).

Sign in as **jmuller@labXXXXX.o365ready.com** (where XXXXX is your unique O365ready.com number) with a password of **Pa$$w0rd.**

In the top-right corner, click **SHARE**.

In the **Share ‘External User Share’** dialog box, type in the email address of the Microsoft Live account you used to set up Office 365 in Lab 1.

In the message box, type **You can now access this shared site on Lucerne Publishing**.

Click **SHOW OPTIONS**.

Under **Select a group or permission level**, in the drop-down list, select **External User Share Members [Contribute]**.

Click **Share**.

In the left navigation click **Documents**.

In the document list, click the ellipsis button (**…**) next to the document you want to share, then click **SHARE**.

Click **Get a link**, then under **View Only**, click **CREATE LINK**.

Select the link, then right-click it and choose **Copy**.

Click **Close**.

In **SharePoint Online**, click **Outlook**.

If prompted, select your language and time zone, and then click **Save**.

Click **New**.

In the **To** box, type the email address for your personal external email account or your Microsoft Live account. 

In the **Subject** box, type **Shared Document**.

In the message box, right-click and choose **Paste**.

Click **SEND**.

In **Outlook Web App**, in the top-right corner, click **Justin Muller**, then **Sign out**.

Press **Alt-F4** to close the modern browser.

####   Task 2: Verify External User Sharing

1.  On the Start page, click **Internet** **Explorer** to open a **modern browser** session.

Browse to **mail.live.com**.

In **Microsoft account**, and **Password**, enter the email address and password you used to set up the Office 365 subscription in Lab 1.

Open the invitation email message from the **Microsoft Online Services Team**.

Click the **Go to External User Share** link.

Click **Microsoft account**.

Verify that you can access the shared site collection.

Click **Upload a document**.

In the **Add a document** dialog box, click **Browse**.

Click **Go up** and click **Go up** again.

Click **Computer**, click **Allfiles (E:**), then click **Labfiles** and click **Lab08**.

Click **Sales Proposal** and click **Open**.

Click **OK**.

In the **Add a document** dialog box, in the **Name** field, enter **Sales Proposal V2**, and then click **Check In**.

Refresh the page and verify that your uploaded document is listed.

In the top-right corner, click your name, and click **Sign Out**.

Press **Ctrl-F4** to close the browser tab.

Access your personal email account and open the email message from **Justin Muller** with the subject of **Shared Document**.

Copy the URL in the email message into a new browser tab and press Enter.

Verify that the document opens in **Word Web App**, and that it is in view-only mode, and that you cannot edit it.

Close the browser tab.

Press **Alt-F4** to close the modern browser session.

**Results**: Heidi has configured external user access to external SharePoint sites in Office 365.

### Exercise 3: Configure Social and Collaboration Features

Scenario

Lucerne Publishing is now ready to implement internal social networking tools. This initiative is being implemented at the request of Jesse Wagner, the COO, who is anxious to connect employees and associates together and improve collaboration on time-sensitive projects. By having Yammer open, employees and associates can keep track of what's developing within a project without having to send email messages or reply to instant messages. Here Heidi sets up Yammer, configures version control, and sets quotas on OneDrive.

The main tasks for this exercise are as follows:

1. Configure Yammer in SharePoint Online

2. Configure Versioning Settings for Co-authoring

3. Configure OneDrive for Business

####   Task 1: Configure Yammer in SharePoint Online

1.  On the **Start** page, click Internet Explorer and browse to **https://login.microsoftonline.com**.

Sign in as **hleitner@labXXXXX.o365ready.com**, (where XXXXX is your unique O365ready.com number) with a password of **Pa$$w0rd**.

In the **Office 365 admin center**, click **Admin**, and then click **SharePoint**.

In the **SharePoint admin center**, click **Settings**.

Under **Enterprise Social Collaboration**, select **Use Yammer.com service**.

Click **OK**.

It will take some time for the change to take effect.

In the **Office 365 admin center**, click **Admin** and click **Office 365**.

Verify that the blue Office 365 navigation menu bar at the top of the page now displays **Yammer** instead of Newsfeed.

> **Note**: If the menu bar has not yet updated to display Yammer, try refreshing the page or navigating to another page and then back to the Sites page again. Alternatively, if it is taking longer than expected, continue with the rest of the lab exercises and come back to verify this step later in the lab.** **

Click the **Get information on** **Yammer** link.

A new Internet Explorer page appears, displaying the **Yammer Sign-up** page.

Close the new Internet Explorer page.

####   Task 2: Configure Versioning Settings for Co-authoring

1.  Press the Windows key and click **Desktop**.

Switch to **Elisabeth Labrecque’s** session in Internet Explorer.

In Internet Explorer, press Ctrl-T to open a new tab and browse to **https://lucernepublishing*XXXX*.sharepoint.com/sites/ExtShare**, (where XXXX is your unique Lucerne Publishing number).

On the **External User Share** page, click **Documents**.

Click the **LIBRARY** tab.

In the **Settings** section, click **Library Settings**.

Under **General Settings**, click **Versioning settings**.

Under **Document Version History**, click **Create major versions**.

Select the **Keep the following number of major versions** check box, and in the text box, type **5**.

Under **Require Check Out**, click **Yes**.

Click **OK**.

In the top-right corner, click **Elisabeth Labrecque** and then click **Sign Out**.

Press **Alt-F4** to close Internet Explorer.

####   Task 3: Configure OneDrive for Business

1.  Press the Windows key and click **Internet** **Explorer** to go to **Heidi Leitner’s** session.

In the **Office 365 admin center**, click **OneDrive**.

On the **Welcome to OneDrive for Business** page, click **Next**.

In the menu bar, click **Sync**.

Click **Sync now**.

On the **Did you mean to switch apps?** banner, click **Yes**.

On the **Sign in** dialog box, enter **hleitner@labXXXXX.o365ready.com** (where XXXXX is your unique O365ready.com number), and click **Next**.

Enter a password of **Pa$$w0rd**, and click **Sign in**.

On the **Ready to sync your OneDrive for Business documents?** page, click **Sync Now**.

Click **Show my files…**

Verify your synchronized files are in a **OneDrive for Business** subfolder under your username.

Close the OneDrive for Business folder.

**Results**: Heidi has successfully configured Yammer, OneDrive for Business, and version control.
